GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE AUGUST 20 FIRST MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE JOIN
US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS.
IT IS CALLED THIS FROM WHAT OUR
CLARK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL
HOUSE MEMBER DESH
PRESENT CUSTOMER HARRISON HERE
TRANSFER SONG ELSMERE WATSON
HERE COMES MARY DENHA HERE
ELLSBURG HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE CUSTOMER IRE
ABSENT CUSTOMER ECKMANN HERE
CUSTOMER BRIGS YOUR CUSTOMER
CORNELL HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
OF EMOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY CALIBER NO
SECOND COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
MAYOR?
WE HAVE TWO INTRODUCTIONS
TODAY.
FIRST, A PROCLAMATION TO
RECOGNIZE THE EQUITABLE
ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE AND FINAL
REPORT ON SO I'M GOING IT COME
ON OUT TO THE PODIUM IF THERE
ARE SEVERAL FOLKS IN THE HOUSE
WHO ARE WHO ARE INVOLVED, COME
ON DOWN IN MAYBE
WELCOME.
THANK YOU, FRANK
.
GOOD TO SEE YOU.
I DIDN'T GET YOU.
I FEEL SO GOOD TO SEE YOU
STANDING OVER THERE.
YOU TALK TO ME BUT YOU'RE OFF
CAMERA SO COME ON OVER THIS WAY
.
I KNOW YOU'RE TRYING TO BE UP
THERE.
OK, WELL I DON'T WANT TO PUSH
YOU LIKE OH YOU'RE THIS WAY OR
THAT WAY.
THIS WAY.
EXCELLENT.
WELL, THE THE BOTTOM LINE IS IS
THAT YOU KNOW, WE OF COURSE AT
CITY IN HARBOR WE KNOW WE WE WE
VALUE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
WE WANT TO KNOW WHAT OUR
RESIDENTS THINK ABOUT
EVERYTHING THAT WE'RE DOING IN
THE COURSE OF OUR COMMUNITY AND
OVER THE MANY YEARS THAT I'VE
BEEN ON COUNCIL AND SHIRLEY
BEFORE AND ALMOST CERTAINLY
AFTER YOU KNOW, WE ARE GOING TO
CONTINUE WITH THOSE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS BUT WHAT WE
ALSO KNOW IS THAT THAT IT'S A
PRIVILEGE TO TO ENGAGE WITH
WITH ENGAGE WITH LOCAL
GOVERNMENT.
IT'S DIFFICULT SOMETIMES TO
ENGAGE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND
THAT THAT IT IS IT IS INCUMBENT
UPON US TO ENSURE THAT THE THE
GREAT MULTIPLICITY OF VOICES
THAT ARE IN AND LATENT IN OUR
COMMUNITY HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO HAVE THE SAME OPPORTUNITY TO
COME AND ENGAGE AND INFLUENCE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT THAN HAD BEEN
YOU KNOW, PREVIOUSLY THE CASE
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR
EFFORTS ARE BROAD, THAT THEY'RE
DEEP AND THAT THEY ARE THERE
TRULY AND ALWAYS WELCOMING.
AND SO WE HAVE ASKED A LONG
STANDING A GROUP TO WORK
TOGETHER AND DEEPLY AND HARD TO
EFFECT AN EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT
INITIATIVE AND TO ISSUE OUR
FINAL REPORT SO THAT WE MAY WE
MAY RECEIVE THE BENEFIT OF IT
AND THAT'S WHAT THAT'S WHAT'S
HAPPENED EXACTLY.
AND SO I HAVE THIS PROCLAMATION
TO THIS EFFECT WHEREAS THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR WISHES TO ADVANCE
EQUITY BY DEVELOPING A SHARED
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT EQUITY
MEANS FOR CITY POLICIES,
GUIDELINES AND PRACTICES TO
HELP ANN ARBOR BE A MORE
INCLUSIVE CITY.
AND WHEREAS DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
COLLECTION OF THE PAST YEARS
HAS SHOWN THAT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT THAT ATTENDEES ARE
NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
CITY'S DIVERSE POPULATION AND
WHEREAS A 30 PERSON STEERING
COMMITTEE WAS FORMED TO
REPRESENT NEW PERSPECTIVE AND
TO DISCUSS HOW TO IMPLEMENT A
MORE EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT
STRATEGY, THESE RECOMMENDATIONS
WERE FORMALIZED IN THE REPORT
ACHIEVING EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT
IN ANN ARBOR AND MARASA MULTI
DEPARTMENT TEAM RESEARCHED
OTHER COMMUNITIES BEST
PRACTICES INVENTORIED OUR
CURRENT RESOURCES AND PRACTICES
AND FACILITATED WITH THE
STEERING COMMITTEE FOR EIGHTEEN
MONTHS AND WHEREAS A
PRESENTATION OF THE COMMITTEE'S
RECOMMENDATIONS WAS SHARED WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
REENTRIES COMMISSION, HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION,
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION,
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
AND TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION
FOR FEEDBACK AND WHEREAS
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SPECIALISTS ARE HERE HAVE
ALREADY USED THE STEERING
COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS TO
MAKE BUDGET REQUESTS AND HAVE
RECEIVED FUNDING FOR A DIGITAL
ENGAGEMENT HUB AND PILOT
LIAISON PROGRAM.
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR, MAYOR OF ANN ARBOR
EXPRESSED THE COMMUNITY'S DEEP
GRATITUDE TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT STEERING
COMMITTEE FOR THEIR COMMITMENT
TO ADVANCE EQUITY AND MUNICIPAL
GOODNESS IN THE CITY
OF ENTERPRISE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
STRATEGY.
THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU.
I KNOW THAT NOTHING HAS BEEN
PREPARED BUT THERE IS AN
OPPORTUNITY IF SOMEONE WOULD
LIKE TO SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT
ABOUT THE EFFORT COME ON DOWN.
SO I THINK MOST OF THE CREDIT
HERE OF COURSE GOES TO THE
STEERING COMMITTEE.
BUT I'D ALSO LIKE TO GIVE A
SHOUT OUT TO HEATHER SEYFARTH
WHO WAS OUR STAFF LIAISON AND
WHO REALLY WAS THE LEADER
OF THIS PROJECT.
SHE COULDN'T BE WITH US TONIGHT
BUT SHE WAS OUR FEARLESS LEADER
FOR THE 18 MONTHS I JOINED IN
TOWARDS THE END AND GOT TO KNOW
ALL THESE LOVELY PEOPLE AND I'M
VERY GRATEFUL YOU'RE ALL HERE
TONIGHT BECAUSE YOU REALLY
DESERVE THIS RECOGNITION THAT
YOU'VE THANK YOU.
WELL, PERHAPS THE YOU MAY BE
THE PERSON TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK GIVE YOU
GO ALL ON.
THANK YOU FOR RAISING
AND NOW
AS A AS ANOTHER INTRODUCTION,
WE HAVE AN UPDATE ON OUR TWENTY
THREE ONE TEN RESOLUTION
REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE WITH
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE AND
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION TO
ADVANCE ENERGY EQUITY AND
RESILIENCE.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR, MEMBER
OF COUNCIL.
I'M EXCITED TO BE WITH YOU
TONIGHT TO REPRESENT SOME
OF THE WORK THAT'S HAPPENING.
I'M GOING TO SHARE SOME SCARY
REUNION WITH MOMENTOUS JUST A
QUICK VISUAL.
Q CAN YOU SEE THIS?
YES.
IS ALL RIGHT.
WELL AS A RECAP THERE HAS BEEN
A LOT THAT IS GOING ON IN THIS
RESOLUTION CAN'T CONTAIN A LOT
OF DIFFERENT OUTREACH
MECHANISMS, ENGAGEMENT
TECHNIQUES AND APPROACHES.
SO THIS IS PRETTY TECH SAVVY.
I DO APOLOGIZE BUT I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE TO WHERE WE STAND
ONCE AGAIN THANKS FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY THE WAY I'M GOING
TO GO THROUGH THIS PRESENTATION
IS FIRST I'M NOT GOING TO LEAVE
THIS DO NOT DENHA THIS IS
BROKEN DOWN BY EACH OF THE
RESULT.
SO THE FIRST SLIDE WILL BE THE
RESOLVED CLAUSES THAT COUNCIL
PASSED THE FOLLOWING SLIDE THAT
WILL DEMONSTRATE WHAT WE'VE
DONE TO ADDRESS THE POINTS THAT
HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED.
SO I'LL JUST NOTE HERE THIS
PARTICULAR ACTION WAS ABOUT
CITY COUNCIL ASKING US TO WORK
WITH THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE
TO LET THEM KNOW OUR CONCERNS.
WHAT WE HOPE TO SEE AROUND
ENERGY EQUITY BROADLY
THROUGHOUT THE CITY THERE'S
POLICY, THERE'S EDUCATION,
THERE'S SOME SPECIAL WORKING
SESSIONS.
SO IN TERMS OF WHERE WE ARE AND
I SHOULD HAVE SAID AT THE VERY
BEGINNING I'D LIKE TO THANK
ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR
JOHN FOURNIER FOR HELPING ME
PULL THIS TOGETHER OUR FIRE
CHIEF CHIEF KENNEDY FOR HIS
ASSISTANCE AND OUR DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY AS
WELL.
YOU'LL SEE LOTS OF FINGERS ALL
OVER OUR RESPONSES.
SO IN RESPONSE TO THIS
PARTICULAR ONE ON TALK OF THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE, WE HAVE
DISCUSSED THIS RESOLUTION WITH
MEMBERS OF OUR DELEGATION AND
OTHER LEADERS IN THE
LEGISLATURE AND ACTUALLY THIS
FALL AS WE PREPPED FOR A
LOBBYING EFFORTS AND LOOKING AT
DIFFERENT PIECES OF LEGISLATION
ARE GOING TO BE BROUGHT FORWARD
OR THAT WE HOPE ARE BROUGHT
FORWARD.
WE HAVE A SPECIAL MEETING AND
THIS BILL OR THIS OR THIS
RESOLUTION WILL BE CENTERED IN
THOSE DISCUSSIONS ESPECIALLY AS
WE FOCUS ON BILLS RELATED TO
SUSTAINABILITY AND ENERGY
POLICY WHICH I AM ACTUALLY
DELIGHTED TO SAY IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE WILL BE MANY SO WE WILL
KEEP COUNSEL POSTED AS THIS
PROGRESSES.
JUST NOTING THAT IN THE SPRING
WE WERE IN BUDGET CYCLE SO
THERE REALLY WASN'T A LOT
OF MOVEMENT ON THESE KINDS
OF TOPICS.
IT WAS VERY FOCUSED ON BUDGET
EXCUSE ME IN ADDITION, STAFF
WERE SUPPORTING A NUMBER
OF BILLS RIGHT NOW IN
DEVELOPMENT AND ALSO IN SEEING
THEM BE BROUGHT TO THE FLOOR.
THOSE INCLUDE MANY OF THE ITEMS
THAT ARE ADDRESSED IN THIS
PARTICULAR RESOLVED CAUSE.
THIS IS THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COMMUNITY SOLAR EXPANDING
THE AUTHORITY THE MISSION
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION WHICH FOLKS MAY NOT
REALIZE IS ACTUALLY HEAVILY
CONSTRAINED BY WHAT THE
LEGISLATURE GRANTS THEM
AUTHORITY TO DO.
SO WE ARE WORKING TO EXPAND
THAT AUTHORITY.
THERE ARE BILLS AROUND ENERGY
STORAGE REQUIREMENTS AND
INCENTIVES.
WE'RE WORKING ON AN INCREASED
OUTAGE CREDIT.
WE'RE WORKING ON BILLS RELATED
TO ALLOWING MICRO GRIDS
ESPECIALLY AT CRITICAL
FACILITIES BUT ALSO MORE
BROADLY AND THERE'S EVEN A BILL
TO EXPAND OUR STATE WIDE
RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD
WHICH WE'RE EXCITED TO SEE AND
DARE TO EVEN SAY THERE ARE
BILLS THAT TIE GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS TO ACTUAL PERFORMANCE
IN UTILITIES.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT'S
HAPPENING HERE AND HOPEFULLY
WE'RE GOING TO SEE QUITE A BIT
OF MOVEMENT ON SOME OF THESE
BILLS IF NOT ALL OF THEM.
A GIRL DREAM BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR.
THE SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE
FOCUSED ON WORKING WITH THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION IN PARTICULAR.
THIS IS THE REGULATORY BODY
THAT HELPS SET THE RATES AND
THAT OUR INVESTOR OWNED
UTILITIES ARE ACCOUNTABLE TO.
SO THESE WERE THE RESOLVE
CLAUSE HERE.
A LOT OF THIS IS ABOUT
DAYLIGHTING THE CONCERNS THAT
WE HAVE PUSHING OUR UTILITIES
TO WORK SIGNIFICANTLY ON
RELIABILITY CONCERNS.
I KNOW WE ALL FEEL PRETTY
DEEPLY EVERY DAY AND THEN
WORKING ON TRANSPARENCY WHICH
IS CRITICAL FOR CORPORATIONS.
SO SOME OF THE THINGS WE'VE
BEEN WORKING ON HERE WE
CERTAINLY HAVE SHARED THIS
RESOLUTION WITH OUR COLLEAGUES
AT THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION ENSURING THEY WERE
AWARE OF WHERE COUNCILS PAIN
POINTS WERE WHAT YOU WANTED TO
SEE A STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES.
WE ALSO ARE FORMAL INTERVENERS
IN MANY CASES.
BUT I WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE TO
POINT OUT WE ARE INTERVENERS IN
THE CASE WHICH IS THE CURRENT
RATE CASE.
LAST TUESDAY OUR CLOSING BRIEFS
WERE FILED.
MANY CITY WITNESSES HAVE HAD
THEIR TESTIMONY CITED IN PUBLIC
INCLUDING IN THE MEDIA WE SEE
CROSS REFERENCING TO THE PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION STAFF
PULLING OUR TESTIMONY ABOUT THE
LIVED EXPERIENCE OF AN
ARBORISTS AND THE PAIN POINTS
THAT WE HAVE, MANY OF WHICH I
IDENTIFIED IN THIS RESOLUTION
IN THEIR OWN TESTIMONY AND WITH
OTHER PETITIONERS WHO HAVE
INTERVENED IN THE CASE.
SO WE'LL BE COMING BACK TO YOU
AS WE KNOW MORE RIGHT NOW.
THINGS ARE BEFORE THE MOVING
BEFORE THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
JUDGE IN THAT RAPE CASE.
BUT WE CONTINUE TO INTERVENE IN
CASES RAPE CASES, INTEGRATED
RESOURCE PLANNING EFFORTS,
VOLUNTARY PROGRAMS ETC. TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE PUSHING AS HARD
AS WE CAN IN THE REGULATORY
SPACE FOR GREATER RELIABILITY
AND MORE OFFERINGS FOR OUR
RESIDENTS.
OVERSIGHT STAFF ALSO REGULARLY
PARTICIPATE IN WHAT THOSE
TECHNICAL CONFERENCES WITH THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION STAFF
AND UTILITY STAFF.
THESE ARE THINGS THAT COME
FORWARD EITHER AFTER A RAPE
CASE OR BEFORE WHERE SORT
OF THE INDUSTRY IS THINKING
ABOUT BIG QUESTIONS SO WE MAKE
SURE WE HAVE A SEAT AT THE
TABLE AT THAT TABLE AND RIGHT
NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THINGS
LIKE HOW SHOULD WE BE
INCREASING RELIABILITY DATA
ACCESS IS A REAL PROBLEM RIGHT
?
SO WHAT CAN WE DO WHILE
PROTECTING INDIVIDUALS DATA BUT
ALSO MAKING SURE WE HAVE THE
INFORMATION WE NEED TO BE
REALLY STRATEGIC AND SURGICAL
WITH THE WORK THAT WE'RE TRYING
TO DO.
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF BATTERY
STORAGE IN MICHIGAN?
HOW DO WE GET MORE PEOPLE TO
ADOPT ENERGY EFFICIENCY
PRACTICES OR HOW DO WE
INCENTIVIZE MORE DISTRIBUTED
ENERGY RESOURCES SUCH AS WIND
OR SMALL SCALE SOLAR AND MANY
MORE THINGS?
SO WE SPEND QUITE A LOT OF TIME
EARLY IN THE PROCESS WORKING
WITH THE PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION STAFF TO MAKE SURE
OUR CONSTITUENTS CONCERNS ARE
HEARD AND THAT WE'RE
REPRESENTING ALL LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS THROUGHOUT THE
STATE AND WORTH.
WE ALSO SUBMITTED TESTIMONY
EXPLICITLY ARGUING THAT
RELIABLE MUST BE A FACTOR
CONSIDERED IN MAKING AND
PUSHING FOR WHAT'S PERFORMANCE
BASED RAINMAKING EXCITED TO SEE
THAT MOVE FORWARD.
WE'VE SEEN IT GO ALWAYS IN
DIFFERENT STATES BUT GENERALLY
THE CONCEPT HERE IS THAT WE
BELIEVE OUR UTILITIES SHOULD BE
COMPENSATED WHEN THEY PERFORM
FOR SUBPAR PERFORMANCE.
WE'VE ALSO SUBMITTED TESTIMONY
ON THE OUTAGE MAP WHICH WAS
EXPLICITLY CALLED OUT AS BEING
CONFUSING AND HARD TO NAVIGATE
IN OUR TESTIMONY BUT ALSO IN
COUNCIL'S RESOLUTION.
AND THEN WE ARE EXPLORING SOME
OTHER PATHWAYS INCLUDING AS YOU
KNOW, THINGS LIKE THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY, THE
REBATE PROGRAM, DIRECT
INSTALLATIONS TO HELP IMPROVE
RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCE
OUTSIDE OF WORK AT THE MICHIGAN
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
THE THIRD RESULT WAS ABOUT OUR
OWN OPERATIONS AS A CITY AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE DOING
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO INCLUDE
AND ENHANCE RESILIENCE AND
EQUITY AND OUR WORK AROUND
ENERGY ISSUES.
SO SOME OF THE THINGS GOING
HERE OUR OFFICE
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY IS
CURRENTLY LOOKING TO HIRE A
CUSTOMER SERVICE SURVEY.
THAT NUMBER IS GOING TO LOOK
INTERNAL EQUITY ACROSS THE
BOARD WHICH WOULD CERTAINLY
INCLUDE THINKING ABOUT OUR
ENERGY SYSTEM AND THE WORK THAT
WE'RE DOING ACROSS EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT OR SO WE CONTINUE TO
MAKE INVESTMENTS, SIGNIFICANT
INVESTMENTS IN ENHANCING THE
RESILIENCE OF MUNICIPAL
OPERATIONS.
THAT'S INCLUDING THINGS LIKE
SOLAR AND STORAGE INSTALLED ON
KEY ASSETS AND COMMUNITY
CENTERS.
BUT HERE THE IDEA THAT WE CAN'T
GO DOWN THE CITY HAS TO ALWAYS
BE ABLE TO OPERATE AND PROVIDE
THE CRITICAL LIFESAVING
SERVICES THAT WE PROVIDE DAY IN
AND DAY OUT WITHOUT DISRUPTION,
ESPECIALLY DURING A DISASTER.
SO WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
MAKE THOSE INVESTMENTS.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PRIORITY.
WE'RE DOING A LOT OF WORK ON
AND I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
THE TRANSFORMATIONS THAT ARE
TAKING PLACE.
WE ALSO ARE COORDINATING WITH
OTHER COMMUNITIES IN THE COUNTY
AND LEVERAGING OUR MUTUAL
AGREEMENTS TO ENSURE THAT THE
SUPPORT RESOURCES WE NEED ARE
AVAILABLE WHEN WE NEED THEM AND
THAT WE'RE ALSO AVAILABLE TO
PROVIDE THEM SUPPORT RESOURCES
WHEN THEY NEED THEM.
AND WE DO HAVE MONTHLY MEETINGS
WITH LIAISONS ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION TO DISCUSS OUR
OPPORTUNITIES ARE POINTS AREAS
FOR WORK FOR GREATER
COLLABORATION AND THAT SPANS
THE ENTIRE ORGANIZATION
DEPENDING ON WHAT THE TOPIC IS.
SOMETIMES THAT'S ON THE
ELECTRIC SIDE, SOMETIMES THAT'S
DISTRIBUTION.
SOMETIMES EACH GENERATION
SOMETIMES ACTS IN THE
REGULATORY SPACE.
SOMETIMES THAT'S THE GAS
SYSTEM.
SO WE MAKE SURE TO
COVER THE
ISSUES AND THE OPPORTUNITIES
THAT ARE PRESENTED BEFORE US IN
THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND WE CAN
ENGAGE IN THE FOURTH RESOLVE
CAUSE IT WAS ABOUT MAKING SURE
WE HAD SPACE OR INVITING THEM
INTO SPACES TO HEAR FROM THE
PUBLIC ABOUT THEIR PAIN POINTS
AND WHAT THEY'RE HOPING TO SEE
BROADLY IN TERMS OF GREATER
ENERGY, JUSTICE AND
DECARBONIZATION IN TERMS
OF WHAT'S HAPPENED HERE WE ARE
CONTINUE I'M SORRY I DON'T EVEN
RESPOND TO THE ACTIONS OR
UNDERNEATH YOUR APOLOGIES.
THIS IS OUT OF OUT OF THE
FORMAT FOR THE OTHERS.
WE DID HAVE A LIAISON PRESENT
ON AUGUST TWENTY TWENTY THREE
ENERGY COMMISSION MEETING.
THEY PRESENTED A RELIABILITY
RECENT OUTAGES AND THEIR PLANS
FOR EFFECT IF YOU'RE ALIVE
TODAY YOU PROBABLY SAW
REPORTING ON THAT PARTICULAR
PRESENTATION.
WE ALSO HAVE INVITED STAFF FOR
DUTY TO PRESENT MORE FREQUENTLY
AT THE ENERGY COMMISSION
MEETINGS SO THAT BOTH
COMMISSIONERS AND THE PUBLIC
HAVE A CHANCE TO DIRECTLY
ENGAGE WITH AND SHARE THEIR
THOUGHTS WITH LIAISON'S AS WELL
AS WITH OUR OWN ENERGY
COMMISSIONERS AS WE'RE THINKING
ABOUT HOW BEST TO ADVISE CITY
COUNCIL ON WORK IN THIS SPACE.
AND THEN LASTLY, THIS IS SORT
OF ANOTHER CATEGORY WHERE IT
JUST AUTHORIZES THE
ADMINISTRATOR TO TAKE ACTIONS
TO INFLUENCE.
BUT I'M USING THIS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TELL YOU SOME
OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
GOING ON THAT WERE EXPLICITLY
CALLED OUT THAT ARE RELEVANT TO
ADVANCING ENERGY, JUSTICE,
EQUITY AND RESILIENCE HERE.
OF COURSE, AS I WAS WORKING ON
A NUMBER PROGRAMS THAT YOU KNEW
YOU KNOW ABOUT AND SOME
EXISTING PROGRAMS SUCH SOLAR
ARRAYS PROGRAM.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE A COMMERCIAL
SOLAR PROGRAM.
WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY AND
THERE'S MORE LIKE THE HOME
ENERGY REBATES AND THE ENERGY
ADVISORY SERVICE THAT ARE GOING
TO BE COMING SOON.
THOSE ARE REALLY IMPORTANT WAYS
THAT WE CAN HELP THE PUBLIC GET
THE RESOURCES, THE TOOLS AND
THE SUPPORT SYSTEM THEY NEED.
WE DO NEED AS I MENTIONED
PREVIOUSLY BUT WE ALSO HAVE AD
HOC MEETINGS AS NECESSARY AND
RIGHT NOW WE'RE HAVING MEETINGS
UPGRADING OUR FOUR POINT SYSTEM
TO A THIRTEEN POINT TWO SYSTEM
UPGRADING TRANSFORMERS AND
SUBSTATIONS SO THAT WE HAVE
MORE ELECTRICAL CAPACITY
THROUGHOUT THE CITY BUT ALSO ON
KEY CIRCUITS WHERE WE
ANTICIPATE GROWTH HAPPENING.
WE HAVE BEEN PUSHING FOR
UNDERWRITING OF WIRES IN
PARTICULAR COORDINATION
OF STREET PROJECTS THAT WE'RE
ALREADY OPENING UP A STREET.
LET'S LOOK AT WHAT'S POSSIBLE
WHEN WE'RE DOING THAT
CONSTRUCTION AND TRYING TO
DESIGN PILOTS FOR THINGS THAT
TO ME MAKE A LOT OF SENSE IN
OUR WORLD WHICH ARE THINGS LIKE
BRING YOUR OWN BATTERY PILOTS.
WE HAVE HIGH BATTERY ADOPTION
IN OUR CITY AND SO WE'RE A
GREAT MARKET PLACE TO BE
TESTING KIND OF INNOVATION AND
HOW THOSE PROGRAMS COULD BE
BUILT AND EXPANDED THROUGHOUT
THE MARKETPLACE.
WE ALSO WORK WITH THE STATE'S
CLIMATE OFFICE QUITE A LOT ON
STATEWIDE EFFORTS TO ACTIVELY
ADDRESS THE FINANCIAL CRISIS,
ESPECIALLY AROUND ENERGY ISSUES
.
AND I DIDN'T WANT THAT TO BE
LOST HERE BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
THE REGULATORY BODY ARE NOT THE
LEGISLATURE BUT THEY ARE SORT
OF SIMILARLY STAFF TO OUR
OFFICE AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE DOING WHAT WE CAN AND THE
LAST FEW THINGS THERE IS ONE
MORE SLIDE.
I DO APOLOGIZE FOR THIS BUT WE
DO HAVE OVERSIGHT STAFF THAT
PARTICIPATED IN AN ENERGY
EQUITY PROJECT COMMUNITY
OF PRACTICE REALLY MAKING SURE
THAT WE CONTINUE TO THINK ABOUT
AND FIND WAYS TO SET OUR EQUITY
AND GROW OUR OWN WORK IN THIS
SPACE.
WE ALSO CHAIR OUR PROFESSIONAL
NETWORK, THE URBAN
SUSTAINABILITY DIRECTORS
NETWORK ENERGY EQUITY LEARNING
GROUP AND THEN JUST SOME OTHER
THINGS I'D POINT OUT THAT MAY
NOT ALWAYS COME IN FRONT
OF MIND ARE TEN THOUSAND THREE
PROGRAM RUNS A COMMUNITY TREE
PLANTING INITIATIVE WHERE WE
ACTUALLY PLANT MUCH LARGER
TREES IN UNDERSERVED UNDER
CANOPY AREAS AND HAS
SIGNIFICANT ENERGY SAVINGS
POTENTIAL NOT TO MENTION A
WHOLE BUNCH OTHER STORMWATER
BENEFITS, HEALTH BENEFITS, AIR
QUALITY BENEFITS ETC. AND THEN
WE'VE GOT OUR HOME ENERGY
ADVISOR PROGRAM THAT JUST
FINISHED ITS PILOT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE RELEASING AN
RFP HOPEFULLY LATER THIS WEEK
OR NEXT WEEK FOR A THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATORS WHO CAN SCALE
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT THERMAL
ENERGY NETWORKS, AN OPPORTUNITY
TO REDUCE ENERGY BURDEN AND
INCREASE COMFORT AND ENHANCE
SAFETY.
WE'VE ALSO GOT AN RFP THAT'LL
GO OUT IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS OR
SO FOR A REBATE ADMINISTRATOR
SO WE CAN GET THOSE REBATES
FROM THE COMMUNITY CLIMATE
ACTION WHICH OUT THE DOOR WE'RE
WORKING ON THE HOME ENERGY
RATING DISCLOSURE AND THE GREEN
RENTAL HOUSING ORDINANCE TO
HELP PROTECT RESIDENTS FROM
ENERGY BURDEN AND THEN
OF COURSE I AM EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND THE HOUSING
COMMISSION WORK REALLY CLOSELY
ON EXPANDING RESILIENT SCIENCE
THAT INCLUDES A GRANT THAT
WE'RE EXPLORING RIGHT NOW TO
ADD SOLAR STORAGE AND OTHER
DECARBONIZATION TECHNIQUES TO
ALMOST EVERY SINGLE HOUSE AND
COMMISSION COMMUNITY CENTER AND
JUST AND I DON'T THINK MOST
PEOPLE KNOW BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T
DONE A GOOD JOB ANALYSIS SAYING
IS WE JUST RELEASED A TOOLKIT
FOR MULTIUNIT DEVELOPMENTS AND
HOW THEY CAN ENHANCE SOLAR AND
ACCESS BECAUSE THERE'S
DIFFERENT CHALLENGES THAT THEY
FACE THAN A SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL HOMEOWNER.
AND THEN WE ALWAYS FUNDRAISE TO
TRY TO SUPPORT PEOPLE WITH
MAKING THESE THESE IMPROVEMENTS
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT IT'S NOT
EQUALLY ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE
.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I KNOW THAT WAS A LOT BUT THE
POINT IS THERE'S A LOT GOING ON
ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED PUBLIC
COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK ACCOUNTS IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING THE CITY CLERK.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU OR OUR TIME CLOCK
HERE WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SCHEDULED SPEAKER
TODAY IS TOM STUHLBARG.
TOM STALBERG PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR STAR SIX ON MEET
YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TALK OF LOWER DOWN IN
ANN ARBOR AND I'M HOPING TO SEE
A NINE THE REPAYMENT OF THE
BONDS FOR THE OLD WILLOTT.
I'D ASK THAT YOU PULL IT FROM
THE CONTENT OF GEMBA AND
DISCUSS THE MILLAGE
GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNT A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT THAN REGULAR
CORPORATE ACCOUNTING.
I'M A TREASURER FOR A NONPROFIT
SO I HAVE TO DEAL WITH SOME
OF THE ASPECTS OF THAT WHEN
THIS IS NOT FOR KNOWLEDGE
SPECIFIC ITEMS IN THAT
LANGUAGE, WHAT THE MONEY IS TO
BE USED FOR AND ARE CERTAIN
EXPECTATIONS THAT COME ALONG
WITH THAT.
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
FOR THE CITIZENS TO HEAR THE
COMPLEXITIES OF THIS ISSUE AND
TO UNDERSTAND AND BE SATISFIED
OR NOT WITH HOW THIS MATTER IS
BEING HANDLED, HOW OUR VILLAGE
MONEY IS BEING SPENT.
THIS IS NEARLY ONE YEAR'S ONE
FULL YEAR'S AMOUNT OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THOSE THAT
WE VOTED IN AND ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WAS SAID THAT OUR
EXPECTATIONS WERE BASED ON THE
IDEA THAT WE COULD ACTUALLY GET
AFFORDABLE BUILT IF WE DID IT
ON CITY ON WHAT?
BECAUSE WE ALREADY OWN THE LAND
.
WELL, IF WE'RE HAVING TO PAY
FOR THAT LAND THAT STARTS TO
MAKE A LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLEX
AND ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS WE
TALKED ABOUT WAS NOT HAVING THE
UNITS SUBSECT REVERT TO MARKET
RATE BECAUSE IT'S A CITY THAT
WE CAN CONTROL THAT.
BUT THERE'S A POSSIBILITY HERE
OF BUILDING ABOUT HALF MARKET
RATE UNITS AND ABOUT HALF
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND
THE POSSIBILITY THAT SOME
OF THE LOT COULD BE SOLD.
SO BE SURE NICE TO KNOW IF WE
PAY NOW FOR THE HOUSING OR TO
PAY DOWN THE DEBT HERE AND THEN
MARKET RATE HOUSING IS BUILT
WITH HALF THE MONEY COME BACK
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING IF
THE LAND IS GOING TO BE SOLD.
HOW DO WE KNOW THAT THE UNITS
ARE GOING TO BE THERE FOREVER
AS OPPOSED TO SOMETHING?
YOU KNOW, MAYBE IT'S ALL WORKED
OUT BUT IT'D BE GREAT FOR THE
PUBLIC TO HEAR YOU DISCUSS
THAT.
SO I ASK FROM THAT AGENDA SO WE
CAN HAVE THAT CONVERSATION.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN GENERAL.
ONE OF THE WAYS WE GET
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MONEY AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
BESIDES OUR VILLAGE IS THROUGH
TO AND THERE HAVE BEEN CITIES
THAT PROVIDE ACTUAL UNITS AND A
LOT OF THEM PROVIDE PAYMENT IN
LIEU.
WE ARE IN JEOPARDY VERY SHORTLY
OF APPROVING A DEVELOPMENT THAT
IS APPROVED.
THIRTY SECONDS TO TRY WILL
PROVIDE THIRTY THREE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING NOW I SURE HOPE IT
DOESN'T GO AWAY THAT LOWER.
WE LOST NINETY THREE AND FOUR
OF THE HOUSING TO NOTHING BUT
CORPORATE PROFIT IN THIS CASE I
HEARD SOME ARGUMENT WHY CELL
SHOULD NOT BE A POSITIVE.
I HAVE NOT ARGUMENT THAT
LEGALLY HOLDS ANY WATER
WHATSOEVER AND IT WILL COST US
THIRTY THREE YEARS FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND GREATER
LEGAL EXPOSURE FOR THE CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD
TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF CONSENT AGENDA ITEM SEVEN
FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO
COMMERCIAL MOWERS AND S.A
ELEVEN TO AUTHORIZE A
SUSTAINING ANN ARBOR TOGETHER
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE SAPPED
GRANT.
THESE PHOTOS I'M GOING TO SHOW
YOU ARE THE SCHOOL CROSSWALK, A
SCHOOL CROSSWALK THAT USED A
SCHOOL CROSSWALK THAT HAS BEEN
IN DISCUSSION SINCE NINETEEN
NINETY SIX WHEN THE CITY HOSTED
A COMMUNITY HEARING.
WHY DO WE STILL HAVE A SIGN
HERE THAT YOU CAN HARDLY SEE IN
THIS RIGHT HERE SHOWS WHAT THE
CROSSWALK SIGN LOOKS LIKE
REALLY OPPOSING TRAFFIC AND THE
OTHER CROSSWALK SIGN IS OVER
HERE AND NOT EVEN LEGIBLE.
NOW THIS IS NOT A COMPLEX
PROBLEM.
THIS IS NOT LIKE
SUSTAINABILITY.
THIS IS NOT LIKE ALL OF THE
ISSUES WE'RE FACING WITH EIGHT
TO ZERO.
IT'S JUST A VERY BASIC PROCESS.
BUT ANN ARBOR DOESN'T SEEM TO
LIKE BASICS.
SO ANYWAY GOT AHEAD OF MYSELF.
I HAVE TALKED TO THE MAYOR.
I HAVE TALKED TO COUNCIL
MEMBERS ONE ON ONE.
I'VE BEEN ORDERED TO FIX IT
TICKETS AND IT'S OBVIOUS THAT
THE CITY SIMPLY LACKS THE
POLITICAL WILL AND OPERATIONAL
CAPACITY TO MAINTAIN SAFE
SCHOOL CROSSWALKS.
FOR THIS REASON I PLAN TO USE
THE SAME MODEL THAT COMMUNITY
MEMBERS USED IN TWO THOUSAND
SIXTEEN FOLLOWING THE DEATH
OF A STUDENT IN AN UNLIT
CROSSWALK, CONCERNED CITIZENS
FORMED A TO SAVE TRANSPORT AND
EFFECTIVE ADVOCATED FOR
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE SCHOOL WORK
ZONES.
THE CITY RESPONDED BY ADOPTING
A TWO STATE TRANSPORT PLAN AND
ALLOCATING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
FOR CROSSWALK IMPROVEMENTS
LIGHTING RFD CONSISTENT SIGNAGE
ETC. TO IMPROVE THE SCHOOL WALK
ZONE TODAY I ENCOURAGE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO JOIN
TOGETHER AND APPLY FOR A GRANT
AS A CHAPTER OF FAMILIES FOR
SAFE STREETS AND ESTABLISHED
NONPROFIT TO ADDRESS
OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
THERE ARE THREE GOALS ONE TO
CREATE A COMMUNITY EDUCATION
PROGRAM BECAUSE MOST PEOPLE
DON'T UNDERSTAND THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
IN FACT SOME PEOPLE ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DON'T
UNDERSTAND THE PUBLIC RIGHT TO
TO DEVELOP A ROAD MAP FOR THE
CITY WHAT WE NEED TO DO GOING
FORWARD AND I THINK WE NEED TO
BE VERY PRESCRIPTIVE BECAUSE
THE CITY IS STILL HAVING
TROUBLE FLIPPING CROSSWALK
SIGNS AND THREE TO WORK WITH
THE STATE OFFICIALS TO EXPAND
THE MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE TO
COVER THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
SO FOR ANYONE INTERESTED,
PLEASE CONTACT ME AT GRISWOLD
K.J. AT GMAIL DOT COM.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JONATHAN.
HELLO.
HI.
I WAS HERE A YEAR AGO AND I
TALKED ABOUT THIS CURRENCY
CRISIS AND AS I THINK ABOUT
BECAUSE IT'S HAPPENING AND IT'S
REAL.
ALL RIGHT.
WHAT WHAT MOTIVATED ME TO BE
HERE TODAY IS I WOKE UP AND I
LOOKED AT THE BOND MARKET, THE
TEN YEAR YIELD OK, THAT FOUR
POINT THREE POINT FOUR PERCENT
AND IT KEEPS GOING UP.
WHY IS IT GOING UP?
BECAUSE THE MARKET'S PUSHING IT
UP.
WHY IS THE MARKET PUSHING IT UP
?
BECAUSE OF INFLATION
EXPECTATIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
A CURRENCY CRISIS IS WHEN THE
CURRENCY THAT WE USE LOSES
PURCHASING POWER.
THIS IS MUNICIPAL BECAUSE THIS
APPLIES TO SOCIETY.
THIS IS OUR COMMUNITY THAT WE
NEED TO STEP IN AND HELP LOSES
PURCHASING POWER.
IT STOPS FUNCTIONING, DOESN'T
WORK LIKE IT USED TO IN THIS
MANIFEST AND RISING PRICES THEN
THAT'S THE ADDED COST OF LIVING
ESSENTIALLY MAKES EVERYONE
POORER.
EVERYTHING WE USED TO TAKE FOR
GRANTED IS NOW MORE EXPENSIVE.
MANY OF THE THINGS WE REALLY
NEED LIKE FOOD AND SHELTER AS
THE CURRENCY CONTINUES TO ERODE
LIFE GETS HARDER, RESOURCES GET
STRETCHED, THE COST
OF EVERYTHING KEEPS GOING UP.
INFLATION PRECIPITATES SOCIETAL
DECLINE.
FIFTY NINE PERCENT OF PEOPLE A
STUDENT LOAN THAT SAID THAT
WHEN STUDENT LOAN PAYMENTS
RESUME NEXT MONTH THAT THEY
WILL NEED TO MAKE A CHOICE
BETWEEN MAKING THEIR DEBT
PAYMENT OR BUYING GROCERIES.
CREDIT CARD DEBT IS NOW OVER
ONE TRILLION.
THE RATES KEEP RISING.
PEOPLE ARE AT THE BRINK.
THIS IS AN EMERGENCY AND WE
NEED TO STEP IN AND DO WHATEVER
WE CAN TO HELP OUR COMMUNITY.
WE NEED TO REDUCE THE COST
OF LIVING FOR OUR RESIDENTS.
YES, WE NEED TO REDUCE TAXES
GREATLY REDUCE THE SIZE
OF GOVERNMENT.
I'M SORRY REDUCE THE CITY'S
DEBT BURDEN, REALLOCATE
EXPENDITURES AND HUMAN
RESOURCES INTO PROVIDING
ESSENTIAL SAFETY NETS TO HELP
KEEP OUR PEOPLE PRODUCTIVE,
HAPPY AND HEALTHY, WE NEED TO
EMPOWER PEOPLE TO KEEP THEIR
HOMES.
WE NEED TO DEVELOP THE SELF
SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY BASED ON
CONSERVATION, REAL PRODUCTION
AND AGRICULTURE.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE OUR PEOPLE
ARE FED SO I STUDY THIS A LOT
AND THOROUGHLY CONVINCED THIS
IS WHAT'S HAPPENING AND IT'S IN
IT'S PRETTY SCARY.
SO I WANT THE CITY TO AT LEAST
CONSIDER THESE WORDS AND WHAT
THIS COULD MEAN FOR OUR FUTURE
BECAUSE I THINK EVERYTHING IS
GOING TO HAVE TO BE RETHOUGHT
ALL OUR EXPENDITURES, WHAT
WE'RE DOING WITH THE MONEY AND
WHEN WHERE IT'S GOING IT ALL
NEEDS TO BE RETHOUGHT BEFORE
IT'S TOO LATE.
AND I HOPE WE CAN PUT IT RIGHT
BACK INTO THE COMMUNITY AND
KEEP THE COMMUNITY HEALTHY AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THE FEAST
GALLIMORE.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M HERE FOR TWO REASONS
TONIGHT.
ONE IS TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION TO THE COUNCIL FOR
CONTINUING TO PURSUE
REPARATIONS FOR BLACKS IN
HARARE WHO HAVE BEEN
DISENFRANCHIZED OVER THE YEARS
AND I THINK THAT YOU'RE HEADED
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
PUTTING TOGETHER A TASK FORCE
TO TO ADDRESS THIS PARTICULAR
ISSUE.
I JUST HOPE THAT IT DOESN'T
BECOME AN UNENDING TASK FORCE
THAT GOES ON AND ON AND ON AND
AND EVENTUALLY IT DIES OUT
BECAUSE PEOPLE'S INTEREST IN
IT.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT THE
COUNCIL WOULD MOVE AT A QUICK
SPEED TO PUT TOGETHER A TASK
FORCE TO ADDRESS THIS
PARTICULAR ISSUE BECAUSE IT'S A
VERY, VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE AT
LEAST TO ME FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE
THAT BLACKS BE REIMBURSED FOR
THE EFFORTS THAT THEY PUT INTO
THIS COMMUNITY BUT HAVE NOT
BEEN REWARDED OVER THE YEARS.
THE OTHER THING THAT I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT IS READING THE
PAPERS YESTERDAY THERE WAS A
COMMENT ABOUT MAYBE NATIVE
AMERICANS SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN
THIS INITIATIVE AS WELL.
WELL, LET ME BE CLEAR I'M NOT
OPPOSED TO ANY GROUP SEEKING
REPARATIONS FOR THEIR COMMUNITY
BUT I HAVE PROPOSED TO INCLUDE
ANOTHER GROUPS INTO THIS
REPARATION INITIATIVE FOR
BLACKS BECAUSE THERE'S
INITIATIVES THAT HAVE BEEN
STIMULATED BY BLACKS IN THE
PAST AND WE'VE BEEN THE LEAST
TO BENEFIT FROM THOSE.
YOU KNOW, OTHER GROUPS HAVE
BENEFITED FROM THE EFFORTS THAT
WE PUT FORTH TO BRING ABOUT
CHANGE, YOU KNOW, FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
BUT IT'S ONLY BENEFITED OTHER
COMMUNITIES AS WELL.
SO I WOULD BE OPPOSED TO ANY I
WOULD LIKE TO DIFFERENT BUT
RIGHT NOW, YOU KNOW, ANY EFFORT
TO INCLUDE ANY OTHER GROUP AND
THIS INITIATIVE THAT IS
DESIGNED TO PRODUCE REPARATIONS
FOR THE AFRICAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY IN THAT OBVIOUSLY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EDWARD M.
NETTY, CANADIAN COUNCIL NEVER
SAID FORMALLY I'M HERE TO SPEAK
ON K-12 THE PAYMENT OF TAXES
PROPOSAL FOR A DEVELOPMENT ON
STADIUM BOULEVARD ON OUR OLD
CAR DEALERSHIP BLOCK.
I'M HAPPY TO SEE THE PROGRESS
TO OUR NEW ONE ZONING WILL HAVE
ITS FIRST RESIDENTIAL OPTION AN
OPTION THAT WAS NOT AVAILABLE
BEFORE THAT WAS DONE.
SO THAT'S A REAL SIGN
OF PROGRESS.
I WILL NOTE THE CHALLENGES
OF BUILDING HOUSING ON WHAT IS
ALMOST CERTAINLY A BROWNFIELD
SITE.
CAR DEALERSHIPS ARE NOT KNOWN
FOR OUR I GUESS CAR CENTERED
BUSINESSES IN GENERAL ARE KNOWN
FOR THEIR POLLUTION
OF GROUNDWATER AND OTHER
THINGS.
THERE'S A WHOLE BUNCH
OF CONCRETE ON THE SITE.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF WORK TO CLEAR IT AND PREPARE
IT AND I WOULD NOT BE AT ALL
SURPRISED IF THE BROWNFIELD
COMMISSION THE BODY AS A WHOLE
WILL HAVE TO DEAL WITH THAT AT
SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE.
I DON'T HAVE ANY SPECIAL
KNOWLEDGE BUT THAT JUST SEEMS
TO BE LIKELY.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO MORE
NEIGHBORS ON THAT SITE.
THE YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN BLEAK
FOR QUITE A WHILE.
THAT WAS MOST OF IT WAS
CLEARED.
THERE WAS A BUILDING A FIVE
SIDED CAR DEALERSHIP BUILDING
WHICH I'M SURE SOMEONE THOUGHT
OF AS HISTORIC AT SOME POINT IN
TIME.
BUT BUT NOW IT'S JUST A BARE
AND VACANT AND I'M LOOKING
FORWARD TO THE EFFORTS WHICH
I'M SURE WILL BE COMPLICATED
AND INVOLVE DETAILS OF PUBLIC
FINANCE THAT ARE BEYOND ME TO
MAKE THAT ALL WORK.
I WILL SAY THAT THE CITY DOES
HAVE A HISTORY OF SUCCESSFUL
TRANSITION OF CAR DEALERSHIPS
TO OTHER USES JUST LIKE WE HAVE
A HISTORY OF TRANSITION OF GAS
STATIONS TO OTHER USES AND I'LL
POINT AS AN EXAMPLE TO THE
WHOLE FOODS SITE ON WASHTENAW
THAT IF YOU HAVE A LONG MEMORY
OR IF YOU DON'T HAVE A LONG
MEMORY BUT HAVE LOOKED IT UP
SOMEWHERE USED TO BE A CAR
DEALERSHIP THERE.
SO IT'S ENTIRELY POSSIBLE TO
TAKE A SITE THAT WAS ACRES
OF PARKING AND TURN IT INTO
SOMETHING THAT'S A DENSE USE.
I JUST WARN YOU THAT YOU YOU
MAY ACTUALLY HAVE TO SPEND A
LITTLE MORE MUNICIPAL MONEY TO
BRING THE SITE UP TO A LEVEL
WHERE YOU'D WANT KIDS TO PLAY
ON THE GRASS.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL HOUSE MEMBER?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'D LIKE TO SAY A COUPLE
OF THINGS ARE OF GENERAL
INTEREST AND SPECIFIC INTEREST
TO WARD ONE.
SO GENERAL INTEREST I WANT TO
PASS ALONG AN ANNOUNCEMENT THE
ANN ARBOR CITIZENS CLIMATE
LOBBY ASKS YOU WOULD YOU LIKE
TO SAVE CARBON AND CASH WHILE
IMPROVING HOME ENERGY
EFFICIENCY?
I THINK PROBABLY THE ANSWER IS
YES.
SO IF SO THEY ARE HOLDING A
PUBLIC FORUM ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 7TH FROM SIX THIRTY
TO EIGHT THIRTY PM.
IT'S A FREE EVENT.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE EXPERTS
FROM REWIRING AMERICA.
MICHIGAN SAVES LIVES IN THE
BUILDING GROUP AND THEY WILL
SHARE PRACTICAL ADVICE ON HOW
YOU CAN GET ACCESS FEDERAL
INCENTIVE MONEY TO MAKE ENERGY
IMPROVEMENTS AND HOW YOU CAN
YEAH, SAVE CARBON AND SAVE CASH
.
SO AGAIN, SEPTEMBER 3RD,
THURSDAY SIX THIRTY TO EIGHT
THIRTY IT'S LIVE AND ON ZOOM
THE LIVE LOCATION IS 1919 S
INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY.
I WANT TO INFORM BYRD ROAD
RESIDENTS AND OWNERS THAT THERE
IS A PHASE TWO TRAFFIC CALMING
STUDY GOING ON IF YOU ARE
AFFECTED AND IT AFFECTS NOT THE
PARTS OF THAT ROAD BUT THE
PAVED ONES AND YOU'LL BE
GETTING A MALE FORM TO EITHER
FILL OUT AND SEND BACK OR FILL
OUT ONLINE.
I DON'T I SEE NO ONE LOOKING UP
SO NONE OF YOU HEAR THIS ON
BIRD ROAD BUT MAYBE SOMEONE
WHO'S WATCHING IS AND I WANT TO
JUST CALL OUT SOMETHING ABOUT
C11 OR C11 EXCUSE ME THE
CONSENT AGENDA ITEM TO
AUTHORIZE THE SUSTAINING ANN
ARBOR TOGETHER GRANT PROGRAM
AND I AM JUST SO EXCITING.
NO, I AM NOT EXCITING BUT IT IS
EXCITING.
I AM ACTUALLY BORING BUT SOME
REALLY WONDERFUL GRASSROOTS
ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN
ACCELERATED BY THIS.
AMONG THEM THE REUSE RETURN
CONTAINER PROGRAM THROUGH THE
RESTAURANTS HAD A SEED GRANT
FROM THE NORTH SIDE RESILIENCE
HUB WAS SEED SEEDED THROUGH
THIS PROGRAM THERE WAS A GRANT
TO THE ANN ARBOR TWENTY THIRTY
DISTRICT WHICH IS WORKING ON
CLIMATE NEUTRALITY AND THEY
LAUNCHED LAUNCHED PILOT
COLLECTION OF ENERGY AND WATER
BENCHMARKING FOR COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES AND THIS HELPED
INFORM THE CITY'S ORDINANCE ON
THAT AND THEN ARROWOOD HILLS
POWER OF THE OUTDOOR CLASSROOM
ALLOWED THE CONSTRUCTION OF AN
OUTDOOR CLASSROOM AT ARROWOOD
HILLS INCLUDING THE INTEGRATION
OF SOLAR POWER INTO THE
CLASSROOM TO TEACH YOUTH ABOUT
CLEAN ENERGY.
SO JUST A FEW HIGHLIGHTS
OF WHAT THAT MONEY IS DOING AND
AN EXPLANATION FOR WHY WE WOULD
WANT TO RENEW IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER ALSO COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG I WOULD LIKE TO
INVITE WARD TWO RESIDENTS TO A
CONSTITUENT MEETING WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 13TH FROM FIVE TO
SEVEN AT GLACIER HIGHLAND'S
PARK ON LARCHMONT DRIVE IN
RESPONSE TO NEIGHBORHOOD
RESIDENTS WHO HAVE REACHED OUT
ABOUT THEFTS FROM UNLOCKED
VEHICLES AND OTHER CRIMES
OF OPPORTUNITY WILL BE JOINED
BY INTERIM CHIEF METZER AND THE
APD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT UNIT
TO DISCUSS SOME COMMON SENSE
SAFETY TIPS ESPECIALLY AS THE
BACK TO SCHOOL SEASON STARTS.
PLEASE JOIN US TO DISCUSS OTHER
CITY ISSUES AS WELL.
THANK YOU SO RACKMAN WASN'T
EXPECTING A CALL SO QUICKLY.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO PERSONALLY THANK
THE EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT
COMMITTEE FOR YOUR HARD WORK.
I REALLY ENJOYED RECEIVING THE
REPORT.
I CAN'T REMEMBER WHICH OF MY
COMMISSION ASSIGNMENTS THAT I
RECEIVED AT JUST REALLY
APPRECIATE THE FINDINGS IN
THERE AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND I THINK I KNOW THAT THIS
WAS A STAFF LED INITIATIVE THAT
THAT'S GOING TO BE USED IN
STAFF'S ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS.
BUT I WOULD ALSO JUST ASK, YOU
KNOW, AS A CHALLENGE TO MYSELF
AND ALSO MY COLLEAGUES ON
COUNCIL TO THINK ABOUT WAYS
THAT WE CAN BUILD TRUST AND
TRANSPARENCY AND BUILD THE KIND
OF RELATIONSHIPS THAT ARE US
GOING TO PEOPLE RATHER THAN
EXPECTING THEM TO COME TO US
BECAUSE NOT EVERYBODY IS GOING
TO SHOW UP AT A COUNCIL MEETING
OR REACH OUT ON AN EMAIL.
SO IT JUST GIVES ME A RENEWED
COMMITMENT TO MAKING SURE THAT
I DO THAT.
SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO REMIND FOLKS
THAT THE MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION'S SUMMER STREETS
SADLY IS COMING TO AN END.
THE IT WILL CONCLUDE THIS WEEK
ON AUGUST 25TH FROM EIGHT TO
NINE P.M. WITH THE A2 CONCERT
BAND BRASS GETTING A CONCERT ON
MAIN STREET BETWEEN WILLIAM AND
LIBERTY AND ALSO THAT NIGHT IF
YOU WANT TO STAY OUT A LITTLE
LATER THERE WILL BE IN LIBERTY
PLAZA A SILENT DISCO FROM 8:00
TO 10:00 PM.
SOUNDS LIKE FUN.
THE RIDE IS MAKING
MODIFICATIONS TO ITS SERVICE
ROOTS.
IT AFFECTS SEVERAL DIFFERENT
ROUTES THROUGHOUT THE CITY FOR
THOSE COMING INTO WARD FIVE ONE
OF THE ROUTES AFFECTED IS THE
MAPLE DEXTER PARK AND RIDE AND
THE GOOD NEWS IS IS THAT THEY
ARE ADDING A NEW TRIP FROM
TRANSIT CENTER AT 645 A.M. IF
YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
NEW ROUTES THAT ARE BEING
ADDED, CHECK OUT THE RIG VERY
SIMILAR TO COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHES UPDATES.
THERE IS A TRAFFIC CALMING
SURVEY FOR GRANDVIEW BETWEEN
DEXTER AND JACKSON ROAD.
SO I ENCOURAGE ALL CONSTITUENTS
WHO ARE AFFECTED BY THAT TO
PLEASE WEIGH IN ON THE TRAFFIC
MEASURES THAT THE CITY IS
CONSIDERING THERE IT A LEVEL
FIVE WHICH MAKES IT SOUND VERY
EXCITING.
BUT IF 50 PERCENT OF THE
RESPONDENTS ARE IN FAVOR
OF TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES
THEN THE CITY WILL PROCEED WITH
THEM FOR ANY ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION OR TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE CITY'S SURVEY TO GOV.
AGAIN SLASH T LIKE TIME C LIKE
CHEWBACCA GRAND VIEW ALL ONE
WORD AND YOUR FEEDBACK IS
EXPECTED I WOULD SAY
APPRECIATED BY SEPTEMBER
ELEVENTH AND FINALLY I AM I AM
PROUD TO ANNOUNCE THAT I'M
JOINING THE COUNTY'S BROWNFIELD
AUTHORITY.
I FIRST MEETING WILL BE
SEPTEMBER 11TH SO I AM THE
CITY'S APPOINTED MEMBER TO THAT
COMMISSION.
SO ANYTIME BROWNFIELD COMES UP
OR SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
INTERESTED IN I'M YOUR GIRL.
PLEASE CONTACT ME.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN GARCIA.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO THANK DR. MACY
STULTS, THE DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR JOHN FURNIER
AMONG AMONG MANY OTHERS WHO
HELPED TO GIVE US AN UPDATE
TONIGHT ON OUR TWENTY THREE
HOUR RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE
WITH THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE
AND MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION TO ADVANCE ENERGY
EQUITY AND RESILIENCE.
IT'S A LONG TITLE AND IT IS
FITTING BECAUSE IT HAS SO MUCH
WORK THAT YOU ALL ARE DOING AND
WE'RE GRATEFUL AND YOU KNOW,
I'M HOPING THAT WE CONTINUE TO
RECEIVE THOSE UPDATES AS WE
WORK ON OUR FRANCHISE
NEGOTIATIONS AND IN PURSUIT
OF OUR CLIMATE CHANGE GOALS.
SO THANK YOU.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL BRIGS.
I JUST WANT TO LET RESIDENTS
KNOW IN THE FIFTH WARD THAT FOR
THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
WHAT'S COMING FOR THE WEST PARK
BANDSHELL CITY PARK STAFF IS IN
THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SERIES AND
SOME OF THOSE MAY BE SCHEDULED
IN ADVANCE OF NEXT OUR NEXT
COUNCIL MEETING.
SO I WILL CERTAINLY BE
COMMUNICATING THAT OUT AS FIFTH
WARD REPRESENTATIVES.
THE CITY WILL AS WELL BUT STILL
KIND OF KEEP YOUR EYE ON THE
CITY'S WEBSITE AS WELL IF
YOU'RE INTERESTED IN THAT AND I
COULD SPEAK TO THIS LATER IN
THE AGENDA AS WELL.
I JUST WANT TO DRAW FOLKS TO
FOCUSES ATTENTION TO THE
CLERK'S REPORT OF COMMUNICATION
AND THE FIRST ONE ONE IS THE
COMMUNICATION FROM THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION REGARDING NOTICE
OF HEARING FOR ELECTRIC
CUSTOMERS OF ELECTRIC COMPANY
THAT HE OF DTC IN CASE NO YOU
DASH TWO ONE FOUR ZERO THREE
ANYWAY THERE IS INFORMATION
THERE ABOUT HOW YOU CAN ENGAGE
IN THAT PUBLIC HEARING WHICH IS
OCCURRING ON THIS COMING
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24TH AND IF
YOU GOOGLE THAT YOU WILL FIND A
LOT MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE
CASE AND OTHERS WHO HAVE
SUBMITTED COMMENT IN IT ON THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN'S WEBSITE.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
FOR CONSIDERATION THE AUGUST
SEVEN, 2003 REGULAR SESSION TO
THE ENERGY COMMISSION
MARCHAND'S TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION JULIE WEATHERBEE TO
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
SANDRA CLARK I HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE BY ACROPORA WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN GARCIA
TO END DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION
I FAVOR POST THERE PROVED I
LIKE TO REPORT OUT BRIEFLY I'M
SURE COUNCIL MEMBERS SPOKE TO
AUGUST 7TH MEETING A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT OUR TRIP TO TO
MASSACHUSETTS TO TO STUDY AND
ENGAGE SOME OF SOME CLIMATE
LEADERS ON THE GEOTHERMAL
FRONT.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO SORT
OF ADD MY TWO CENTS WAS MY
GREAT PLEASURE TO JOIN JOIN
ALONG ON THAT AND IS
TREMENDOUSLY INFORMATIVE ABOUT
THE THE NUTS AND BOLTS AND
OPERATIONS AND PROMISE
OF DISTRICT GEOTHERMAL.
IT IS UNDERWAY IN SOME PROJECTS
AT BOSTON WAY AND IT IS AN
EXCITING AND EXCITING
TECHNOLOGY WITH A LOT
OF PROMISE THAT IS TREMENDOUSLY
ENCOURAGING AND I'M LOOKING
FORWARD TO SEE WHETHER WE CAN
FURTHER INCORPORATE THAT INTO
OUR H0 PROGRAM FURTHER, I'D
LIKE TO SAY THAT IT WAS MY
GREAT PLEASURE LAST LAST WEEK
TO BE AT THE WHITE HOUSE TO
CELEBRATE THE THE ONE YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF THE INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT.
IT WAS AN OUTSTANDING EVENT.
THE PRESIDENT WAS THERE SPEAKER
EMERITUS PELOSI, THE MAJORITY
LEADER SCHUMER, THE EPA
ADMINISTRATOR, DEPARTMENT
OF AGRICULTURE SECRETARY
FOCUSING ON THE GREAT WORK DONE
ALREADY BY THE BIDEN HARRIS
ADMINISTRATION INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT AND ITS PROMISE
FOR THE FUTURE.
IT WAS A PLEASURE TO BE ABLE TO
TALK WITH SOME ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES AS WELL AND
IMPORTANTLY DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY STAFF MEMBERS ABOUT
THE THE CRUCIAL WORK THAT IRA
HAS ENABLED OUR CITY TO
ACCOMPLISH.
WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO PURCHASE
USING THE DIRECT PAY MECHANISM
OVER FOUR MEGAWATTS OF ROOFTOP
AND GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR
SYSTEMS WHICH WAS WOULD NOT
HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE BUT FOR THE
LEGISLATION WE PURCHASED TWO
HUNDRED KILOWATT BATTERIES
WHICH ARE FURTHER GOING TO HELP
US MEET OUR POWER.
SHAVAR, OUR PEAK SAVING GOALS
AT THE WATER AND WATER
RECOVERY PLANTS THE IRA WITH
ITS HOME REBATES IS GOING TO
ENABLE US TO STACK OUR OWN
REBATES AND ASSIST RESIDENTS IN
IN SAVING MONEY BE MORE
COMFORTABLE AND OF COURSE
REDUCING THEIR CARBON FOOTPRINT
.
THE LIST OF WORK BEING DONE
HERE AT THE CITY WITH SUPPORT
FROM THE BIDEN HARRIS
ADMINISTRATION IS EXTENSIVE AND
SO I WILL NOT RUN THROUGH IT
HERE.
BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT IT
IS A COMMITMENT OF THE
ADMINISTRATION AND A COMMITMENT
TO THIS OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT
.
WE ARE INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT
THE FUTURE AND OUR
OPPORTUNITIES TOGETHER.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US TO
CONFRONT AGENDA OF EMOTIONAL
PLEAS TO APPROVE THE CONCEPT
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECOND BY COUNCILOR.
OUR DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA
COUNCILMAN JOHANNESSEN
AND PAUL C8 FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA FOR CNN
PLEASE SEET NINE FOR THE
COUNCILMAN BECAUSE HE HAD WON
CSX.
PLEASE READ OUT SOME RACKMAN
AND THANK YOU.
I DON'T WANT TO PULL THIS OUT
BUT I DID WANT TO JUST SPEAK TO
MY ABSOLUTE THRILL AT 012 JUST
TO SEE THE START OF A PLAN TO
DEVELOP THIS OLD ABANDONED CAR
LOT.
BUT I FEEL LIKE I'VE BEEN
STARING AT FOR I DON'T KNOW HOW
I'M HOPING THAT IT WOULD
HOUSING AND SO IT'S JUST VERY
IT'S NOT MY WORD BUT I FEEL
LIKE IT'S IN MY WORK BECAUSE
I'M SO OFTEN I THINK IT'S JUST
GREAT THAT WE'RE PLAYING AND
THAT SOMEBODY IS PLANNING TO
PUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING THERE
AND JUST TO SEE SOMETHING IN
RTC ONE DISTRICT.
SO THANKS I AM REMINDED THAT
THERE WAS A STAFF INTRODUCTION
THAT THAT IN MY ENTHUSIASM TO
BEGIN CONVERSATIONS I ADMITTED
CHIEF KENNEDY AND MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT YOU HAVE
WORDS OF WISDOM WITH RESPECT TO
SEE A SIX
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL
SOME QUESTIONS CAME UP
.
REGARDING C A SIX THAT WERE I
SOME QUESTIONS CAME UP
GUESS A LITTLE KIND
REGARDING C A SIX THAT WERE I
OF TANGENTIAL TO NOT
GUESS A LITTLE KIND
NECESSARILY DIRECT WITH THE
OF TANGENTIAL TO NOT
AGREEMENT ITSELF WITH DEARBORN
NECESSARILY DIRECT WITH THE
WAS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT TO
AGREEMENT ITSELF WITH DEARBORN
QUESTIONS ONE OF WHICH KIND
WAS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT TO
OF RELATED TO LONGER TERM FIRE
QUESTIONS ONE OF WHICH KIND
SERVICE PLANNING AND THE OTHER
OF RELATED TO LONGER TERM FIRE
RELATED TO THE RELATIONSHIP
SERVICE PLANNING AND THE OTHER
OF FIRE SERVICES IN THE CITY
RELATED TO THE RELATIONSHIP
AND THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
OF FIRE SERVICES IN THE CITY
AS WITH MOST TOWN GOWN
AND THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE
AS WITH MOST TOWN GOWN
UNIVERSITY, IT'S IT'S A LITTLE
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE
COMPLEX.
UNIVERSITY, IT'S IT'S A LITTLE
THE FIRST PART IS FROM A DIRECT
COMPLEX.
FUNDING PERSPECTIVE THE CITY
THE FIRST PART IS FROM A DIRECT
DOES NOT RECEIVE ANY DIRECT
FUNDING PERSPECTIVE THE CITY
PAYMENT FROM THE UNIVERSITY FOR
DOES NOT RECEIVE ANY DIRECT
FIRE SERVICES.
PAYMENT FROM THE UNIVERSITY FOR
WHAT THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAS
FIRE SERVICES.
AND BY DEFAULT WITH YOU
WHAT THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAS
OF BEING A PUBLIC INSTITUTION,
AND BY DEFAULT WITH YOU
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAS A
OF BEING A PUBLIC INSTITUTION,
PROGRAM WHERE THEY FUND MONEY
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAS A
TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FOR FIRE
PROGRAM WHERE THEY FUND MONEY
PROTECTION AND IT'S BASED ON A
TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FOR FIRE
BASICALLY AN CV OF WHAT THE
PROTECTION AND IT'S BASED ON A
PROPERTY IS WORTH.
BASICALLY AN CV OF WHAT THE
NOW THE CHALLENGE THERE IS WHAT
PROPERTY IS WORTH.
THE TAXABLE VALUE OF MICHIGAN
NOW THE CHALLENGE THERE IS WHAT
STATE AND WHAT IS THE TAXABLE
THE TAXABLE VALUE OF MICHIGAN
VALUE OF UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
STATE AND WHAT IS THE TAXABLE
SO THE BASIS OF THE FUNDING
VALUE OF UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
MECHANISM ITSELF IS I THINK
SO THE BASIS OF THE FUNDING
CHALLENGING AT BEST BECAUSE
MECHANISM ITSELF IS I THINK
YOUR HOME CREATES THAT NUMBER
CHALLENGING AT BEST BECAUSE
FOR US.
YOUR HOME CREATES THAT NUMBER
WE DON'T RATE THAT NUMBER SO
FOR US.
THAT THAT NUMBER IS DONE
WE DON'T RATE THAT NUMBER SO
OUTSIDE THE ASSESSORS OFFICE.
THAT THAT NUMBER IS DONE
SO THAT'S THE INITIAL CHALLENGE
OUTSIDE THE ASSESSORS OFFICE.
FOR THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS.
SO THAT'S THE INITIAL CHALLENGE
WHAT THAT EQUALS TWO IS ABOUT
FOR THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS.
TEN THAT THE STATE REIMBURSES
WHAT THAT EQUALS TWO IS ABOUT
THE CITY OR REIMBURSED MIGHT
TEN THAT THE STATE REIMBURSES
NOT BE THE CORRECT TERM
THE CITY OR REIMBURSED MIGHT
PROVIDES FUNDING TO THE CITY
NOT BE THE CORRECT TERM
WHICH IS ABOUT 10 PERCENT.
PROVIDES FUNDING TO THE CITY
SO FOR FISCAL TWENTY THREE IT
WHICH IS ABOUT 10 PERCENT.
WAS ONE POINT NINE MILLION AND
SO FOR FISCAL TWENTY THREE IT
AGAIN THAT IS THE STATE
WAS ONE POINT NINE MILLION AND
OF MICHIGAN.
AGAIN THAT IS THE STATE
I'M NOT A DIRECT YOU OF PROGRAM
OF MICHIGAN.
AND THERE IS A FORMULA THAT
I'M NOT A DIRECT YOU OF PROGRAM
USED IS HOW THAT IS GENERATED.
AND THERE IS A FORMULA THAT
THE SECOND PART THAT IS MORE
USED IS HOW THAT IS GENERATED.
INFORMAL AND WE'VE TRIED
THE SECOND PART THAT IS MORE
EXTENSIVELY TO FIND A FORMAL
INFORMAL AND WE'VE TRIED
CONTRACT WITH THIS AND ONE DOES
EXTENSIVELY TO FIND A FORMAL
NOT APPEAR TO EXIST IS THE
CONTRACT WITH THIS AND ONE DOES
RELATIONSHIP OF THE CITY AND
NOT APPEAR TO EXIST IS THE
FIRE STATION FIVE FIRE STATION
RELATIONSHIP OF THE CITY AND
FIVE UP ON NORTH CAMPUS THAT IS
FIRE STATION FIVE FIRE STATION
A U OF M OWNED BUILDING.
FIVE UP ON NORTH CAMPUS THAT IS
IT'S ON U OF M PROPERTY.
A U OF M OWNED BUILDING.
SINCE THE LATE SIXTIES THE CITY
IT'S ON U OF M PROPERTY.
HAS OPERATED A FIRE STATION OUT
SINCE THE LATE SIXTIES THE CITY
OF THERE.
HAS OPERATED A FIRE STATION OUT
THEY PROVIDE UTILITIES, WE
OF THERE.
PROVIDE THE TRUCK AND STAFFING
THEY PROVIDE UTILITIES, WE
SO THE STATION IS DESPERATELY
PROVIDE THE TRUCK AND STAFFING
NEED TO BE RENOVATED.
SO THE STATION IS DESPERATELY
IT WAS ADDED AT A TIME WHERE
NEED TO BE RENOVATED.
WOMEN, FIREFIGHTERS DIDN'T
IT WAS ADDED AT A TIME WHERE
EXIST AND IT IS OUR THE OLDEST
WOMEN, FIREFIGHTERS DIDN'T
STATION THAT WE HAVE CITY
EXIST AND IT IS OUR THE OLDEST
EMPLOYEES CURRENTLY OPERATING
STATION THAT WE HAVE CITY
OUT OF .
EMPLOYEES CURRENTLY OPERATING
SO THAT'S THE I GUESS THE
OUT OF .
FIDUCIARY BETWEEN THE CITY AND
SO THAT'S THE I GUESS THE
UNIVERSITY IN TERMS OF FIRE
FIDUCIARY BETWEEN THE CITY AND
STAFFING WITH DENSITY
UNIVERSITY IN TERMS OF FIRE
DEVELOPMENT BOTH IN THE
STAFFING WITH DENSITY
DOWNTOWN AND WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT BOTH IN THE
UNIVERSITY.
DOWNTOWN AND WITH THE
SOME OF THOSE ISSUES WERE
UNIVERSITY.
COVERED IN THE FISCAL TWENTY
SOME OF THOSE ISSUES WERE
FOUR PLANNING ONE OF THE
COVERED IN THE FISCAL TWENTY
BIGGEST ISSUES WE'RE DEALING
FOUR PLANNING ONE OF THE
WITH IS THE DENSITY AND THE
BIGGEST ISSUES WE'RE DEALING
VERTICAL GROWTH IN THE DOWNTOWN
WITH IS THE DENSITY AND THE
.
VERTICAL GROWTH IN THE DOWNTOWN
THE NEED TO ADD WHAT WE'RE KIND
.
OF TERMING AS A HIGH RISE UNIT
THE NEED TO ADD WHAT WE'RE KIND
BASICALLY A SECOND UNIT
OF TERMING AS A HIGH RISE UNIT
DOWNTOWN THAT CAN HELP ADDRESS
BASICALLY A SECOND UNIT
SOME OF THE VERTICAL CHALLENGES
DOWNTOWN THAT CAN HELP ADDRESS
FACING A FIRE ON A ONE STOREY
SOME OF THE VERTICAL CHALLENGES
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
FACING A FIRE ON A ONE STOREY
HOUSE IS A LOT DIFFERENT THAN
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
THE TENTH STORY OF A OF THE
HOUSE IS A LOT DIFFERENT THAN
STUDENT HIGH RISE.
THE TENTH STORY OF A OF THE
AND SO THAT'S AN UPCOMING
STUDENT HIGH RISE.
CHALLENGE.
AND SO THAT'S AN UPCOMING
THERE'S INITIAL VEHICLE COST
CHALLENGE.
WITH THAT AND THEN TO STAFF
THERE'S INITIAL VEHICLE COST
THAT WITH 24/7 COVERAGE THAT
WITH THAT AND THEN TO STAFF
WOULD BE A TWELVE FTE REQUEST
THAT WITH 24/7 COVERAGE THAT
AND WE'RE ESTIMATING THAT
WOULD BE A TWELVE FTE REQUEST
PROBABLY NORTH OF ONE POINT ONE
AND WE'RE ESTIMATING THAT
MILLION FOR A RECURRING COST,
PROBABLY NORTH OF ONE POINT ONE
WE'RE ALSO SEEING AN EXPANSION
MILLION FOR A RECURRING COST,
OF OUR AMBULANCE TRANSPORT UNIT
WE'RE ALSO SEEING AN EXPANSION
WHICH WAS AUTHORIZED BY COUNCIL
OF OUR AMBULANCE TRANSPORT UNIT
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
WHICH WAS AUTHORIZED BY COUNCIL
WE'RE CONTINUING TO MONITOR
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
THAT.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO MONITOR
THAT'S ALSO DEFINITELY A
THAT.
HORIZON CHALLENGE AND THEN A
THAT'S ALSO DEFINITELY A
LOT OF THE FACILITY CHALLENGES
HORIZON CHALLENGE AND THEN A
THAT HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED MAINLY
LOT OF THE FACILITY CHALLENGES
THE REPLACEMENT OF STATION FOUR
THAT HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED MAINLY
ON HURON PARKWAY.
THE REPLACEMENT OF STATION FOUR
SO THOSE ARE A COUPLE OF THE
ON HURON PARKWAY.
HORIZON ISSUES THAT WE EXPECT
SO THOSE ARE A COUPLE OF THE
WITH FIRE SERVICES.
HORIZON ISSUES THAT WE EXPECT
THANK YOU.
WITH FIRE SERVICES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
THANK YOU.
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO CALL
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA.
OUT FOR PRAISE KATENDE
FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO CALL
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AWARD FROM
OUT FOR PRAISE KATENDE
MICHIGAN DEOL AND EAT FOR THE
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AWARD FROM
ANIMAL CLIMATE CORPS AMERICORPS
MICHIGAN DEOL AND EAT FOR THE
PROGRAM ONE OF THE HALLMARKS
ANIMAL CLIMATE CORPS AMERICORPS
OF OUR EIGHT TWO ZERO PLAN IS
PROGRAM ONE OF THE HALLMARKS
TO ENSURE THAT IT IS A THAT IT
OF OUR EIGHT TWO ZERO PLAN IS
AFFECTS A JUST AND EQUITABLE
TO ENSURE THAT IT IS A THAT IT
TRANSITION TO COMMUNITY WIDE
AFFECTS A JUST AND EQUITABLE
CARBON NEUTRALITY.
TRANSITION TO COMMUNITY WIDE
WE ARE NOT ABLE TO DO THAT
CARBON NEUTRALITY.
UNLESS WE GO OUT TO THE
WE ARE NOT ABLE TO DO THAT
NEIGHBORHOODS AND TALK TO
UNLESS WE GO OUT TO THE
PEOPLE.
NEIGHBORHOODS AND TALK TO
WE GO OUT THE RESIDENTS AND
PEOPLE.
COMMUNICATE WITH THEM AND TELL
WE GO OUT THE RESIDENTS AND
THEM WHAT IT IS WE'RE DOING,
COMMUNICATE WITH THEM AND TELL
WHAT IT IS THAT THEY CAN DO AND
THEM WHAT IT IS WE'RE DOING,
HOW WE CAN ALL WORK TOGETHER.
WHAT IT IS THAT THEY CAN DO AND
THE THE THE USE THE
HOW WE CAN ALL WORK TOGETHER.
OF AMERICORPS FOLKS IN OUR
THE THE THE USE THE
CORPS VOLUNTEERS IS GOING TO BE
OF AMERICORPS FOLKS IN OUR
A GAME CHANGER FOR US.
CORPS VOLUNTEERS IS GOING TO BE
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO ACCESS
A GAME CHANGER FOR US.
AREAS OF OUR COMMUNITY THAT ARE
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO ACCESS
NOT PREVIOUSLY WHERE WE HAVE
AREAS OF OUR COMMUNITY THAT ARE
NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN ABLE TO
NOT PREVIOUSLY WHERE WE HAVE
SUFFICIENTLY ENGAGE AND I
NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN ABLE TO
BELIEVE WILL TAKE OUR H0
SUFFICIENTLY ENGAGE AND I
PROGRAM A NEXT STEP FURTHER IN
BELIEVE WILL TAKE OUR H0
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND TO
PROGRAM A NEXT STEP FURTHER IN
HELP RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT ANN
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND TO
ARBOR REALIZE THE PROMISE
HELP RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT ANN
OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY, CHEAPER
ARBOR REALIZE THE PROMISE
ENERGY AND OF COURSE PROGRESS
OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY, CHEAPER
TOWARDS CARBON NEUTRALITY.
ENERGY AND OF COURSE PROGRESS
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
TOWARDS CARBON NEUTRALITY.
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
OF EIGHT, NINE AND SIX IN FAVOR
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
OF EIGHT, NINE AND SIX IN FAVOR
EXCEPTION OF THE EIGHT, NINE
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
AND SIX PCI OPPOSED THE CONSENT
EXCEPTION OF THE EIGHT, NINE
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C
AND SIX PCI OPPOSED THE CONSENT
EIGHT, NINE AND SIX IS APPROVED
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C
OF TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
EIGHT, NINE AND SIX IS APPROVED
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
OF TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
THUS SATISFYING EIGHT VOTE
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
THUS SATISFYING EIGHT VOTE
THIRTEEN AND TEN AS I AM
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
REMINDED.
THIRTEEN AND TEN AS I AM
THANK YOU HERE I JUST WENT AND
REMINDED.
TALKED ABOUT IT AND I KNOW IT'S
THANK YOU HERE I JUST WENT AND
ALL RIGHT.
TALKED ABOUT IT AND I KNOW IT'S
THANK ARE C EIGHT RESOLUTION TO
ALL RIGHT.
APPROVE THE CITY'S
THANK ARE C EIGHT RESOLUTION TO
PARTICIPATION IN THE SETTLEMENT
APPROVE THE CITY'S
OF THE NATIONAL PRESCRIPTION
PARTICIPATION IN THE SETTLEMENT
OPIOID LITIGATION AGAINST
OF THE NATIONAL PRESCRIPTION
WALGREENS MOVE BY COUNCIL
OPIOID LITIGATION AGAINST
MEMBER HARRIS AND BY COUNCIL
WALGREENS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
MEMBER HARRIS AND BY COUNCIL
HAVE A SEAT.
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
COUNCILMAN.
HAVE A SEAT.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
COUNCILMAN.
I JUST WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE
THANK YOU MAYOR.
PROFOUND IMPACT OF OPIOIDS
I JUST WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE
DISORDER ON OUR COMMUNITY
PROFOUND IMPACT OF OPIOIDS
MEMBERS.
DISORDER ON OUR COMMUNITY
IT'S CRUCIAL THAT WE END THE
MEMBERS.
STIGMA ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
IT'S CRUCIAL THAT WE END THE
DISEASE SO THAT OTHERS SO THAT
STIGMA ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
THOSE AFFECTED CAN CONFIDENTLY
DISEASE SO THAT OTHERS SO THAT
SEEK THE TREATMENT THEY DESERVE
THOSE AFFECTED CAN CONFIDENTLY
WHILE THE ONE HUNDRED AND
SEEK THE TREATMENT THEY DESERVE
NINETY FOUR THOUSAND OVER
WHILE THE ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTEEN YEARS IS A STEP IT DOES
NINETY FOUR THOUSAND OVER
NOT FULLY ADDRESS THE DEPTH
FIFTEEN YEARS IS A STEP IT DOES
OF PAIN AND HARDSHIP ENDURED BY
NOT FULLY ADDRESS THE DEPTH
INDIVIDUALS AND THEIR LOVED
OF PAIN AND HARDSHIP ENDURED BY
ONES.
INDIVIDUALS AND THEIR LOVED
I HAD HOPED FOR A GREATER
ONES.
COMMITMENT FROM WALGREENS TO
I HAD HOPED FOR A GREATER
REFLECT THE GRAVITY OF THIS
COMMITMENT FROM WALGREENS TO
ISSUE AND OUR COMMUNITY.
REFLECT THE GRAVITY OF THIS
THANK YOU.
ISSUE AND OUR COMMUNITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
THANK YOU.
POSED IT IS APPROVED CANINE
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
RESOLUTION TO SELL THREE FIFTY
POSED IT IS APPROVED CANINE
S FIFTH THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
RESOLUTION TO SELL THREE FIFTY
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SIX
S FIFTH THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
MILLION TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SIX
DOLLARS A MOVE BY COUNCIL
MILLION TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
MEMBER QUENELLE SECOND BY
DOLLARS A MOVE BY COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
MEMBER QUENELLE SECOND BY
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF CANINE
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
CAST MEMBER CORNELL.
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF CANINE
THANK YOU MAYOR.
CAST MEMBER CORNELL.
I'VE RECEIVED A LOT
THANK YOU MAYOR.
OF CORRESPONDENCE ABOUT THIS AS
I'VE RECEIVED A LOT
IT IS IN WARD FIVE.
OF CORRESPONDENCE ABOUT THIS AS
I DID WANT TO EXPRESS MY
IT IS IN WARD FIVE.
SUPPORT AND MY HOPE THAT MY
I DID WANT TO EXPRESS MY
COLLEAGUES WILL SUPPORT THIS
SUPPORT AND MY HOPE THAT MY
TONIGHT.
COLLEAGUES WILL SUPPORT THIS
I THINK THAT WE DO AND HERE A
TONIGHT.
LOT ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
I THINK THAT WE DO AND HERE A
NEED FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
LOT ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
OUR COMMUNITY AND I THINK AT
NEED FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
THIS LOCATION ACROSS THE STREET
OUR COMMUNITY AND I THINK AT
FROM THE LIBRARY AND ADJACENT
THIS LOCATION ACROSS THE STREET
TO PUBLIC TRANSIT CENTER MAKE
FROM THE LIBRARY AND ADJACENT
IT AN IDEAL PLACE FOR
TO PUBLIC TRANSIT CENTER MAKE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO EXIST IN
IT AN IDEAL PLACE FOR
TERMS OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO EXIST IN
AMENITIES THAT ARE ALREADY
TERMS OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND
OFFERED WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
AMENITIES THAT ARE ALREADY
I WAS HOPING THAT MISS HALL
OFFERED WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
WOULD BE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
I WAS HOPING THAT MISS HALL
YOUR QUESTION, MR. TONY, IS SHE
WOULD BE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
AVAILABLE?
YOUR QUESTION, MR. TONY, IS SHE
SHE IS OK.
AVAILABLE?
THANK YOU.
SHE IS OK.
THANK YOU MISS ALL BUT I KNOW
THANK YOU.
THE ANSWER TO THIS QUESTION BUT
THANK YOU MISS ALL BUT I KNOW
I KNOW THAT SHE CAN ARTICULATE
THE ANSWER TO THIS QUESTION BUT
THIS MUCH BETTER THAN I CAN IN
I KNOW THAT SHE CAN ARTICULATE
TERMS OF THE QUESTIONS THAT WE
THIS MUCH BETTER THAN I CAN IN
HAVE RECEIVED ABOUT WHY THE
TERMS OF THE QUESTIONS THAT WE
CITY WOULD PURCHASE THE LAND
HAVE RECEIVED ABOUT WHY THE
VERSUS RETAINING IT AND
CITY WOULD PURCHASE THE LAND
ALLOWING A HOUSING COMMISSION
VERSUS RETAINING IT AND
TO BUILD ON IT.
ALLOWING A HOUSING COMMISSION
THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS
TO BUILD ON IT.
AROUND WHY THE CITY WOULD WANT
THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS
TO SELL THIS PROPERTY AND WHY
AROUND WHY THE CITY WOULD WANT
THE HOUSING COMMISSION IS THE
TO SELL THIS PROPERTY AND WHY
BEST SUITED TO OWN AND I WAS
THE HOUSING COMMISSION IS THE
HOPING THAT SHE WOULD OFFER HER
BEST SUITED TO OWN AND I WAS
EXPERT INSIGHT AND PERSPECTIVE
HOPING THAT SHE WOULD OFFER HER
ONTO THAT.
EXPERT INSIGHT AND PERSPECTIVE
OH, THANK COUNCIL MEMBER FOR IN
ONTO THAT.
THE REST CITY COUNCIL THE
OH, THANK COUNCIL MEMBER FOR IN
MERITS THE ANNENBERG HOUSING
THE REST CITY COUNCIL THE
COMMISSION AND OUR VARIOUS
MERITS THE ANNENBERG HOUSING
SUBSIDIARIES THAT WE HAVE TO
COMMISSION AND OUR VARIOUS
USE TO ACTUALLY DEVELOP HOUSING
SUBSIDIARIES THAT WE HAVE TO
ARE ACTUALLY THE CITIES
USE TO ACTUALLY DEVELOP HOUSING
CREATED A CITY CREATED .
ARE ACTUALLY THE CITIES
SO WE'RE NOT REALLY A
CREATED A CITY CREATED .
DEPARTMENT OF THE CITY BUT A
SO WE'RE NOT REALLY A
CITY
CREATED ENTITY THAT WAS
CREATED SPECIFICALLY FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO EVEN THOUGH WE'RE A SEPARATE
PUBLIC BODY CORPORATE, WE ARE A
COMPONENT ENTITY OF THE CITY
AND SO IT WOULD BE SIMILAR TO
ASKING A DIFFERENT DEPARTMENT
BESIDES ENGINEERING TO DO
ENGINEERING WORK.
SO WE ARE THAT PART OF THE CITY
THAT IS TASKED WITH DOING THIS
WORK AS FAR THE CITY KEEPING
OWNERSHIP VERSUS SELLING THE
PROPERTY THE THIS PARTICULAR
SITE AND OTHER SITES OF THIS
PARTICULAR SITE HAS A LONG
HISTORY OF CITY ACQUISITION.
OUR PD DEVELOPERS FAIL
DEVELOPMENT OUR PS THAT WENT
SOUTH AND SO IT IS A RISK I
THINK FOR THE CITY TO MAINTAIN
OWNERSHIP AS WELL AS THE
DEVELOPER JUST BECAUSE OF OUR
HISTORY OF HAVING A HARD TIME
GETTING THE SITES DEVELOPED,
WORKING WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR
PROJECTS TEND TO TAKE A VERY
LONG TIME.
THEY CAN TAKE FIVE TO SEVEN
YEARS AND THERE'S CONSTANT
CHANGE IN THE POLITICAL
FEELINGS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY AND SO WE
ACTUALLY
PUT INTO THE HANDS
OF A NUN NOT SOMETHING THAT
SOME ENTITY THIS OPPORTUNITY
LIKE I SAID, WE ARE COVERED IN
COURT SO THAT WE ARE ABLE TO
ATTRACT AND WORK WITH A
DEVELOPMENT PARTNER THAT DOES
NOT HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT CHANGES
IN WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR
POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT ON FLIGHT
PLANS AND FUNDING AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
THAT'S JUST THE REALITY AND
WHAT WE'RE HEARING FROM THE
PRIVATE SECTOR AND THE RISK
OF DOING DEVELOPMENT IN GENERAL
IN THE CITY THAT ARE
PARTICULARLY WHEN THE CITY
MAINTAINS OWNERSHIP.
AND SO I THINK IT'S A SAFER WAY
FOR THE SITE TO ACTUALLY GET
DEVELOPED AS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IF THE HOUSING CONDITIONS THE
DEVELOPER WITH OUR WITH OUR
NONPROFIT.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION HOUSE MEMBER
BRIGS, THANKS FOR THAT.
THOSE QUESTIONS.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL.
I ALSO WANT TO ADDRESS SOME
OTHER QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE
RECEIVED AND QUESTIONS I HAD
RAISED WHEN THIS WAS ASKED ON
OUR AGENDA WHICH WAS YOU KNOW,
WHY ARE WE SELLING THIS AT FAIR
MARKET VALUE?
AND I WE HAVE CERTAINLY AS A
BODY RECEIVED COMMUNICATIONS ON
THAT.
THERE'S FEEDBACK IN OUR AGENDA
RESPONSE QUESTIONS BUT JUST TO
SHARE IT HERE AS WELL TONIGHT
IT'S WE DO HAVE THE LEGAL
OBLIGATION TO SELL THIS
PROPERTY AT FAIR MARKET VALUE
BECAUSE THE BONDS THAT WERE
ACQUIRED TO PURCHASE THAT
PROPERTY IN WE PURCHASED THAT
PROPERTY IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
BECAUSE OF THE TAX EXEMPT
NATURE OF THOSE ON.
SO WE HAVE THE LEGAL OBLIGATION
TO TO SELL AT IT, SELL THE
PROPERTY AT FAIR MARKET.
I THINK IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO
NOTE THAT WE DID NOT
NECESSARILY INTEND TO
ANTICIPATE HAVING DEBT ON THIS
PARCEL AT THIS POINT IN TIME
THE AIR RIGHTS SOME ON THE AIR
RIGHTS FROM THE LIBRARY LANG
PARK A PARKING STRUCTURE WAS
ANTICIPATED TO PAY OFF THE DEBT
ON THIS THIS SITE PRIOR TO NOW
BUT SINCE WE STILL HAVE FIVE
DOLLARS MILLION OF DEBT WE ARE
LOSING UPON US TO PAY OFF IT
AND AND ALSO SELL IT FOR A FAIR
MARKET VALUE.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT AND WE MAY HAVE FUTURE
CONVERSATIONS AROUND THE GROSS
PROCEEDS BUT FOR FOR TONIGHT
THIS IS THE ABSOLUTE RIGHT
THING TO DO FOR THE DISCUSSION
FOR FAIR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE 10 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.
THE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT SEE A SIX
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
INTERLOCKER AGREEMENT BETWEEN
CITY OF DEARBORN AND CITY
OF ANN ARBOR FOR FIRE VEHICLES
BY COUNCILMAN GARCIA.
I DON'T THINK MY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF CSX COUNCIL NO THANK YOU
MAYOR.
THANK YOU CHIEF KENNEDY.
I THINK THAT THE INFORMATION
YOU PROVIDED WAS VERY HELPFUL
SPECIFICALLY MY QUESTIONS WERE
AROUND JUST WHAT IS OUR LONG
TERM PLAN TO BOLSTER OUR BOTH
OUR FIRE AND EMERGENCY
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES CAN
CONSIDERING OUR CONTINUED
COMMITMENT TO INCREASE DENSITY
AND YOU HAVE YOU KNOW, THERE
ARE SLOWING DOWN ENROLLMENT SO
YOU PROVIDED GOOD INFORMATION
AND AT THIS TIME I DON'T HAVE
ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS ABOUT IT
.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I'M WOULD LIKE TO
EXPRESS MY ENTHUSIASM AND
EXCITEMENT ABOUT THE THE
EXPANSION OF OUR MEDICAL
TRANSPORT SERVICE AND GRATITUDE
TO THE FIRE DEPARTMENT UP AND
DOWN THE LINE FOR FOR THE
DEPARTMENT'S ENTHUSIASM.
IT IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE CITY
EXPANDING OUR SERVICES TO
RESIDENTS TO HELP DO WHAT WE
CAN TO TO KEEP FOLKS SAFE, TO
GET FOLKS TO THE HOSPITAL WHEN
THEY NEED IT AND I'M GRATEFUL
FOR STAFFS WORK AND FOR THE
OTHER WORK OF THE THE AGREEMENT
OF THE CITY OF DEARBORN TO TO
WORK WITH US ON THIS VENTURE.
YOU KNOW WE DO WHEN WE CAN LOOK
TO TO COOPERATE WITH OTHER
JURISDICTIONS WHERE OUR OUR
INTERESTS ARE ALIGNED AND OUR
ABILITIES ARE PRESENT.
AND HERE IS ONE OF THOSE
INSTANCES AND I'M GRATEFUL I'M
GRATEFUL FOR IT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT'S PROVED WE NOW COME
TO A SET OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNSEL IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING PEOPLE
FOLKS DO NOT NEED TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE IN ORDER
TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS BOTH IN HOUSE
AND ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL WALK
THE TABLE WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND THE
ZONING BEING PART OF SECTION
FIVE TEN POINT TWO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT BANABA
ZONING OF ELEVEN INITIATED
ANNEXED PARCELS ON NEWPORT,
RHODE BYRD ROAD AND VICTORIA
CIRCLE FROM TOWNSHIP PART OF ME
FROM TWP TOWNSHIP TO R-1 D
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC?
GOOD EVENING.
I'M LINDA YOUNG AND I LIVE 28
28 AND GLAIVE DRATH.
MY BACKGROUND INCLUDES
PARTICIPATING IN THE
DEVELOPMENT NATURAL FEATURES
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE NINETEEN
NINETY FIVE ANN ARBOR WEST AREA
PLAN.
THAT WAS A LONG TIME AGO AND
BEING A FORMER PLANNING
COMMISSIONER FOR ANN ARBOR
TOWNSHIP AND ALL THESE
ACTIVITIES AND OTHERS INCLUDING
THE LATEST ANN ARBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION PUBLICIZED NOTICE
RECOMMENDED ARE ONE A I
CONTINUE TO AGREE DID NOT
ATTEND THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING NEVER THINKING THAT
ANYTHING ELSE WOULD BE
DIFFERENT.
I CONSIDER A BLANKET ARE ONE
DEAD ZONE AND INAPPROPRIATE
INAPPROPRIATE AND WOULD LIKE
CITY COUNCIL TO RESPECTFULLY
CONSIDER PROPERTIES TWO SEVEN
SEVEN FIVE AND TO SEVEN THREE
SEVEN NEWPORT ROAD BE CHANGED
TO THE ORIGINAL STAFF
RECOMMENDATION OF R ONE A WITH
THE FOLLOWING REASONS IT'S
CONSISTENT WITH THE PRESENT
LAND USE ELEMENT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OUR ONE
ZONING.
IT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
SURROUNDING ZONING OF OUR 1A
AND THE CITY BUT ALSO ARE TO IN
THE TOWNSHIP.
IT'S A SMOOTH TRANSITION FROM
TOWNSHIP TO CITY DENSITY AS
THESE ARE THE FIRST TWO
PROPERTIES COMING INTO THE
CITY.
THESE PROPERTIES ARE A NEW ROAD
ARE ON A ARE ON OR VERY NEAR A
DANGEROUS CURVE.
ACCIDENTS HAVE OCCURRED TO HAVE
THAT SMALL CORNER BE BUILD OUT
TO TWELVE DWELLINGS ON ONE
POINT SEVEN ACRE LOT WOULD
INCREASE THE LIKELIHOOD OF AN
ACCIDENT WITH LIMITED
SIGHTLINES AND IRRESPONSIBLE
COUNCIL MIGHT ALSO CONSIDER
PARKLAND FOR THE RUDOLPH
STEINER PROPERTY AS THERE IS
ALREADY A NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX
MEMORANDUM OF LAND CONTRACT
WHICH INCLUDES AN EASEMENT IN
FAVOR OF THE PUBLIC FOR THE USE
OF EXISTING AND FUTURE EXTERIOR
PLAYGROUND AND NATURE AREAS ON
THE PREMISES.
R&D WILL DRASTICALLY INCREASE
THE IMPERIAL BOTH SURFACES ON
THE HILLY TERRAIN FROM THE
PRESENT PERCENT ARE PERCENTAGES
EXISTING RAIN GARDENS ON THE
SCHOOL PROPERTY HELP CONTROL
WATER QUALITY RETENTION IN
DETENTION.
THE TOWNSHIP AND THE CITY HAVE
A WATER SEWER AGREEMENT.
THERE IS A WATER TI VALVE ON
THE WEST SIDE OF THE STEINER
PROPERTY TO BE USED IN THE CASE
OF EMERGENCIES TO PROVIDE WATER
TO THE ADJACENT TOWNSHIP
PROPERTIES WITHOUT BEING
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY.
IS THERE ENOUGH IS THERE ENOUGH
LINE CAPACITY FOR THE PRESENT
LOAD FUTURE BUILD OUT AT OUR
ONE D LEVELS IN THE TOWNSHIP
SUBDIVISION I ORIGINALLY
THOUGHT IT WOULD NEVER HAPPEN
BUT THE GOVERNMENT ALONE IS
KNOCKING ON OUR DOOR.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE SIX PAGES
AND THEN THE
PART OF THE PROTEST PETITION.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS JOHN PAUL WOLF I
NEWPORT RHODE IN ANN ARBOR.
I WORK IN COMMERCIAL REAL
ESTATE SO I'VE BEEN BEFORE
COUNCILS LIKE THIS USUALLY
ASKING FOR A ZONING CHANGE OR A
VARIANCE.
BUT ONE OF THOSE POSITIONS I'VE
WORKED WITH CITY OFFICIALS TO
ENSURE OUR GOALS ARE ALIGNED
AND THAT CHANGES ARE IN KEEPING
WITH THE SURROUNDING AREAS.
NEVER HAVE I WITNESSED
MUNICIPAL ZONING
INDISCRIMINANTLY LIKE WE'RE
SEEING TODAY ESPECIALLY AGAINST
THE WILL OF THE ACTUAL PARCEL
OWNERS.
WHILE I UNDERSTAND THE
DIRECTIVE TO INCREASE DENSITY,
THERE'S A RIGHT WAY AND A WRONG
WAY TO DO THINGS AND I FEEL
THAT THIS IS CLEARLY A WRONG
WAY TO DO IT.
MY FAMILY AND I MOVED TO THIS
AREA ABOUT SIX YEARS AGO
BECAUSE OF THE LACK OF DENSITY
,THE LARGER LOTS, THE MAKE UP
THE AREA LAND AROUND HAD
ALREADY BEEN DEVELOPED IN A
THOUGHTFUL, CONSISTENT MANNER.
THERE WAS NOTHING TO INDICATE
OR FEEL THAT OUR AREA WOULD
CHANGE.
YOU KNOW, THE EXTREME ZONING
CHANGE THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
HERE TODAY WILL NEGATIVELY
IMPACT THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR
THE PEOPLE IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AS IT TO PREVIOUSLY.
RUDOLF STEINER IS THE LARGEST
PARCEL THAT'S UP FOR SPOT
ZONING TODAY AND THEY SIGNED A
PETITION AGAINST THAT ZONING
CHANGE WHEN THESE AND AGAIN
WHILE IT WAS MENTIONED
PREVIOUSLY WHEN THESE
PROPERTIES WERE ANNEXED, THE
POINT WAS TO JOIN WITH THEY ARE
ONE ZONING DESIGNATION NOT IN
OUR ONE D-LINK DESIGNATION BY
CHANGING A TIRE ONE DAY IT
COMPLETELY CONTRADICTS THE
ESSENCE OF THAT APPROVAL AND
OF THAT RECOMMENDATION THE
ANTICIPATED ZONING CHANGE FROM
OUR TWO TO ONE IS ALREADY
INCREASING THE ZONING DENSITY
FROM ONE HOUSE PER ACRE TO ONE
HOUSE PER TWENTY THOUSAND.
SO IT'S ALREADY DOUBLING IT NOW
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT GOING TO
ALMOST NINE HOMES PER ACRE.
IT'S COMPLETELY OUT OF TOUCH
WITH SURROUNDING AREAS
ADDITIONALLY NOT TO MY
KNOWLEDGE AGAIN ALLUDED TO
BEFORE THERE HAVEN'T BEEN ANY
TRAFFIC IMPACTS STUDIES DONE.
THERE'S BEEN NO WATERSHED, NO
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES
DONE WHICH WOULD BE REQUIRED IF
A DEVELOPER BROUGHT THIS TO
YOUR RIGHT YOU WOULD SAY SHOW
ME ALL THESE REPORTS SHOWING
THAT SOMEONE'S NOT GOING TO GET
RUN OVER THAT YOU KNOW,
ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND, YOU
KNOW, BUT NONE OF THAT HAS BEEN
NOT TO MENTION THE FACT THAT
THERE'S EASEMENT RIGHTS ON THE
PROPERTY.
THE BIGGEST PROPERTY THAT
YOU'RE TRYING TO INCLUDE
DENSITY AND YOU CAN'T EVEN DO
IT BECAUSE THERE'S EASEMENTS
ALREADY ON THE PROPERTY.
I THINK IN GENERAL IT JUST
SHOWS A LACK OF FORETHOUGHT
THAT WAS DONE IN THIS.
IT'S SORT OF A SYSTEM WIDE JUST
INCREASED DENSITY AND AGAIN
SORT OF NOT WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
FOR IN THIS AREA.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
HI.
MY NAME IS REBECCA WESTON AND
MY FAMILY AND I LIVE AT TWENTY
EIGHT HUNDRED AND DRIVE.
I CAME TONIGHT TO ASK YOU TO
ZONE TWO SEVEN SEVEN AND TWO
SEVEN THREE SEVEN NEWPORT RHODE
AS I RUN FOR SEVERAL REASONS
THAT PEOPLE THE WILDLIFE AND
THE HEART AND SOUL OF THE CITY
ITSELF AND HARBOR IS A PLACE
THAT HAS THE BENEFITS OF THE
CITY WHILE BEING IN NATURE
SINCE THE PANDEMIC CITIES SUCH
SAN FRANCISCO HAVE BEEN
EXTREMELY THREATENED,
EXISTENTIALLY THREATENED WITH
WORK FROM HOME WORKERS LEAVING
AND MOVING OUT TO PLACES THAT
ARE LESS EXPENSIVE AND MORE
RURAL.
IN SAN FRANCISCO, PROPERTY
VALUES AND TAX REVENUES HAVE
PLUMMETED.
APARTMENTS ARE VACANT
BUSINESSES SUCH AS LOCAL
COFFEE SHOPS, HAIR SALONS,
CLOTHING STORES AND GROCERY
STORES HAVE CLOSED AND EVERYONE
FROM BUSINESS OWNERS TO
LANDLORDS TO JANITORS WHO ONCE
CLEAN THESE NOW CLOSED
BUSINESSES TO THE CITY ITSELF
THAT IS NOW COLLECTING FAR
FEWER TAXES HAS SUFFERED.
IT IS WIDELY BELIEVED THAT THAT
CITY WILL NEVER FULLY RECOVER
SO FAR THIS HASN'T HAPPENED IN
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE I WAS LUCKY
ENOUGH TO BE SURROUNDED BY
TREES TO BE A CITY THAT FEELS
LIKE IT'S IN THE COUNTRY.
IF THE CITY STARTS ZONING
PROPERTIES TO HAVE HIGHER
DENSITY OF HOUSING IT WILL LOSE
THIS APPEAL AND PEOPLE WILL
FLEE.
THEY WILL WORK REMOTELY
SOMEWHERE ELSE BUY
COFFEE SOMEONE ELSE BUY BOOKS
AND GROCERIES SOMEWHERE ELSE
AND THE CITY WILL CEASE TO
EXIST AS WE KNOW IT IN THE
SHORT TERM SCHOOLS WILL BE
OVERCROWDED.
TAXES WILL GO UP TO PAY FOR THE
EXTRA SERVICES FOR THE EXTRA
CITIZENS AND THERE WILL BE
CONGESTION ON THE ROADS IN THE
LONG TERM THE SCHOOLS WILL BE
EMPTY, PROPERTY VALUES WILL GO
DOWN AND AND WE WILL LIKELY
NEVER RECOVER.
AS FOR THE WILDLIFE, I'M SURE
THAT YOU ARE AWARE THAT THERE'S
AN OVERPOPULATION OF DEER IN
ANN ARBOR AND THEY ARE SICK DUE
TO A LACK OF FOOD AND NATURAL
PREDATORS.
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT HAS THIS
PROBLEM.
THE DENSER THE HUMAN
POPULATION, THE WORSE IT WILL
GET NOT JUST THE DEER BUT OTHER
ANIMALS AND NATIVE SPECIES WILL
BE KILLED OFF AND THOSE SORTS
OF CHANGES TEND TO HAVE
DISASTROUS EFFECTS ON THE
ENVIRONMENT AS A WHOLE.
CURRENTLY THERE'S AN INFORMAL
WILDLIFE AND CONSERVATION
CORRIDOR COMING DOWN THE HILL
STARTING AT SKYLINE AND GOING
TO THE RIVER.
THIS RUNS THROUGH THESE
PROPERTIES A ZONING OF OUR LAND
WOULD STOP THIS DAILY ANIMAL
MOVEMENT WITH THE POTENTIAL
OF CAUSING IRREPARABLE DAMAGE
TO THE ECOSYSTEM IF PROPERTIES
LIKE TWO SEVEN SEVEN FIVE AND
TWO SEVEN THREE SEVEN NEWPORT
ROAD ARE RESERVED FOR HIGHER
DENSITY OF HOUSING THE ABSENCE
OF OUR NEIGHBOR WHAT MAKES THE
CITY DESIRABLE TO LIVE IN IT
MAKES IT A PLACE THAT DRAWS
PEOPLE HERE AND ENCOURAGES THEM
TO STAY WILL DISAPPEAR.
WILDLIFE WILL GET SICK AND DIE
AND PEOPLE WILL ABANDON THE
CITY.
THOSE WHO WILL ULTIMATELY PAY
THE PRICE WILL BE THE LOWEST
INCOME WORKERS WHO WON'T HAVE
BUSINESSES TO WORK IN AND THE
CITY ITSELF.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE SOME SOME THANK
YOU
.
HELLO I'M NEIL NEW YORK AND I'M
THE OWNER OF TWO SEVEN THREE
SEVEN NEWPORT, RHODE.
I THINK THE LAST TIME I WAS AT
CITY COUNCIL CHERRY DEGREE AND
KATHY KOSENKO ARE ON COUNCIL SO
IT'S BEEN A WHILE ANYWAY I'M
NEW TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY PROPERTY IS ONE OF THEM IS
ON THE VERY NORTH EDGE OF THIS
DISTRICT.
I LOVE THE RURAL FEEL
OF NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND TAKING
CARE OF NEGLECTED PROPERTY
THERE FOR THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS, CLEANING UP THE WOODS
AND APPRECIATING ALL THE
WILDLIFE THAT CURRENTLY LIVE
THERE AND THEY'RE LETTING ME
THEY'RE ALLOWING ME TO BE THERE
ON OCCASION.
I AGREE THAT AH ONE IS NOT
APPROPRIATE FOR MY LOT OR THE
SCHOOL NEXT DOOR.
INCREASING DENSITY TO SOME
EXTENT MIGHT MAKE SOME SENSE.
I COULD SEE OUR ONE OR MAYBE I
ONE BE BUT IT'S NOT THAT KIND
OF DENSITY IS JUST NOT IN
KEEPING WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE ALL THE LOTS ARE ABOUT
HALF AN ACRE.
THIS WOULD JUST INCREASE
DENSITY BEYOND WHAT MAKES ANY
SENSE FROM A STATIC OR SAFETY
STANDPOINT.
I WOULD SAY THAT IT'S IN MY
FINANCIAL INTEREST TO JUST GO
ALONG WITH OUR ONE DAY BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT MY FINANCIAL
INTEREST IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
CONSIDERATION IN THIS
SITUATION.
SO I RESPECT MY NEIGHBORS
CONCERN FOR INCREASING DENSITY
BEYOND ANYTHING THAT MAKES ANY
SENSE.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT EVEN
AS IT IS I'M FAIRLY NEW TO THIS
AREA THERE IT'S MAJOR BIKING
ROUTE AND PEOPLE YOU CAN'T
THERE'S NO ROOM ON THE SIDE
OF THE ROAD EVEN FOR BIKES TO
GET OFF THE OFF THE ROAD WHEN
CARS ARE COMING, PEOPLE CAN'T
WALK THERE EITHER BECAUSE
THERE'S JUST NO SIDEWALK.
SO INCREASING TRAFFIC IN THIS
AREA IS REALLY SOMETHING YOU'VE
GOT TO THINK CAREFULLY ABOUT.
I WAS DRIVING THE SPEED LIMIT
ON NEWPORT IS TWENTY FIVE MILES
AN HOUR.
I WAS DRIVING TWENTY EIGHT
MILES AN HOUR RECENTLY WHEN A
CAR PULLED AROUND ME CROSSING
THE DOUBLE YELLOW LINE GOING
ABOUT FORTY FIVE MILES AN HOUR
ON A HILL AND JUST PAST ME AND
I'VE SEEN PEOPLE SPEEDING THERE
ALL THE TIME.
IT TURNS OUT THIS PARTICULAR
CAR WAS A DELIVERY DRIVER
TAKING GROCERIES TO BARTON
HILLS FOR COSTCO SO WE ALREADY
HAVE A TRAFFIC AND SAFETY
PROBLEM SO I DON'T REALLY THINK
WE SHOULD MAKE IT ANY WORSE
ALSO I THINK THE SCHOOL IS A
BEAUTIFUL PROPERTY.
WE DON'T ABIDE BY ZONING IN A
WAY THAT GIVES THE SCHOOL AN
INCENTIVE TO SELL OUT TO A
DEVELOPER AND MOVE FURTHER
OUTSIDE OF TOWN BECAUSE THEY
COULD GET MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
FOR THEIR PROPERTY.
IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE.
SO I'D LIKE TO SEE THE AT THE
VERY LEAST PLANNING RECONSIDER
.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS MATTHEW WESTON.
I LIVE AT TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED
ENCLAVE DRIVE.
I'M ASKING FOR YOU TO KEEP TWO
SEVEN SEVEN FIVE AND TWO SEVEN
THREE SEVEN ZONED AS R ONE A
FOR THE REASONS ALREADY
MENTIONED.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WE'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH.
HI THIS IS ANDREW'S COVERAGE
FOR TEN THIRTY LAST AGUS DRIVE
THIS AREA I THINK THAT OUR ONE
DAY IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
I THINK THAT THE EXTREME LOT
SIZES IN OUR ONE DAY ARE REALLY
NOT APPROPRIATE ANYWHERE IN THE
CITY BUT ESPECIALLY ALONG A BUS
ROUTE SUCH AS WHAT'S ON NEWPORT
AND I THINK THAT IF WE'RE GOING
TO CONTINUE TO BAN MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING AND WE'RE NOT
CONSIDERING MAKING THIS ARE TWO
ZONING OF SOME LEVEL THEN I
THINK THAT OUR ONE D IS
APPROPRIATE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> BRANDON DIMITROV, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT RIGHT.
UH, I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
DENSITY IS NOT BAD REGARDING
OUR MONEY IN PARTICULAR WE
CAN'T CONTINUE TO ZONE THINGS
EXTREMELY LOW DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL TWENTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT LOT SIZES AND SOLVE
OUR HOUSING CRISIS AT THE SAME
TIME CITYWIDE WE SHOULD MAKE
THE MINIMUM LOT SIZE SOMETHING
LIKE FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET AND ALLOW DUPLEXES AND
COMPLEXES BY RIGHT BUT FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET THAT SIZE
FOR A SINGLE HOME IS THE BEST
WE CAN EASILY DO DURING A
STATION.
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
MINIMUM OUTSIDERS ARE SIMPLY
RIDICULOUS AROUND A BUS BUILD
SIDEWALKS AND CALM TRAFFIC AND
YOU CAN EASILY SUPPORT THE
ADDITIONAL DENSITY IN THIS AREA
SAFELY.
NOBODY IS GOING TO MAKE THESE
EXISTING HOMEOWNERS WITH THEIR
LIGHTS.
BUT IF A PROPERTY OWNER WANTS
TO THEY COULD IN IRELAND AND IN
THE PROCESS PRODUCE FOUR TIMES
AS MUCH HOUSING IN THE SAME
AREA HELPING TO SOLVE THE
HOUSING CRISIS IN THE CITY.
SO PLEASE APPROVE THIS REZONING
AT ARLANDA AND ALSO PLEASE MAKE
CHANGES TO INCREASE DENSITY
ALLOWABLE CITYWIDE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ALEX, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
HI.
ALEX LOWE CALLING IN FROM
ESTABA I SAY I'M MILDLY
DISAPPOINTED WITH THE
ORDINANCES I'VE ALREADY
EXPRESSED TO PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT INTEND EXPRESS
HERE AGAIN AS A CITY WE HAVE NO
CHOICE EITHER WE CANNOT ALLOW A
NATURAL INCREASE OF DENSITY
WITHIN CITY LIMITS OR WE CAN
FORCE PEOPLE OUT OF THE CITY
LEADING TO LONG COMMUTES, MORE
TRAFFIC, MORE EMISSIONS FROM
CARS AND CONTRIBUTING FURTHER
TO THE ABSOLUTE ENVIRONMENTAL
CATASTROPHE THAT WE CAN ALREADY
SEE HAPPENING AROUND US SUCH AS
WHEN THE LAST OF JULY WAS THE
HOTTEST MONTH EVER RECORDED
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES ON HALF
ACRE LOTS IN THE CITY FORCING
PEOPLE WHO DON'T HAVE HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS TO DROP ON A
TWO BEDROOM HOUSE FURTHER FROM
THE CITY ARE EXACTLY THE SORT
OF OUT OF TOUCH FLAUNTING
OF WEALTH THAT LED TO THE US
BEING THE LARGEST CONTRIBUTOR
IN THE WORLD TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
WE IF IF SOMEONE HAS THE MONEY,
HAS THE MONEY FOR THAT, THAT'S
WHAT THAT'S ONE THING WHEN WE
SAY NO, YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED TO
DO ANYTHING ELSE THAT'S A
PROBLEM.
WHY ARE WE BRINGING IN THINGS
THAT WHERE WE'RE NOT ALLOWED TO
BUILD DUPLEXES OR TRIPLEX WHY
DO WE CONTINUE TO CREATE A NEW
PROPERTY THAT WE THAT WE SOLD
TO ONLY ALLOW SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSES ON ENORMOUS, ENORMOUS
LOTS?
IT'S RIDICULOUS THAT ALL
OF THESE SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO
HAVE COMPLEXES BUY RIGHT AT
MINIMUM AND IF NOBODY ON THAT
STREET WANTS TO DO THAT, WELL
THEN NOBODY ON THE STREET HAS
TO DO THAT.
AND WHEN THEY SELL IF THE NEXT
PERSON WANTS TO DO THAT, WELL
THEN THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO
TO TO DO THAT.
IT'S IT'S SO CRAZY TO ME THAT
WE HAVE THIS CON THEFT OF MY
PROPERTY MY MY RIGHT BUT
SOMEHOW ALSO SEEM TO HAVE THE
HUBRIS TO TO SAY YEAH BUT WE
ALSO SHOULDN'T SHOULDN'T LET
THE PEOPLE NEXT TO ME DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
>> 30 SECONDS.
THAT'S A THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NOW AND FURTHER THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO TO AN AUDIENCE TO ED
CHAPTER ONE ZERO SIX HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE TO
TITLE EIGHT BUILDING
REGULATIONS OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY THEN ARBER IS THERE ANYONE
IN THE HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
>> JUST COME ON UP ASSOCIATION
EXECUTIVE FOR THE NRA REALTORS
WITH ANY ORGANIZATION FOUNDED
IN NINETY YOU'VE BEEN AROUND
FOR QUITE SOME TIME AND AGAIN
I'M SPEAKING IN OPPOSITION TO
THE HEARD ORDINANCE AND I DO
WANT TO THANK STAFF AND COUNSEL
FOR LISTENING TO OUR CONCERNS
AND REALLY GOING THROUGH THE
ORDINANCE ITSELF AND MAKING
SOME CHANGES TO IT THAT DO MAKE
IT PRACTICAL.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO POINT
SOMETHING ELSE OUT THAT YOU
KNOW, LAST TWO WEEKS AGO WHEN
STAFF WAS REPORTING THEY
BROUGHT UP A REALLY INTERESTING
POINT THAT WAS BASED FROM THE
LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL
LABORATORY STUDY.
AND AS I RESEARCHED INTO THAT
WE FOUND A COUPLE OF OTHER
SITES.
THERE'S THERE'S A LOT
OF INFORMATION ON THIS TOPIC.
I LIKE TO READ FROM ONE
PARTICULAR QUOTE.
THIS IS FROM THE BEHAVIORAL
PERSPECTIVES ON HOME ENERGY
AUDIT STUDY ALSO BY LAWRENCE
BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
AND IT READS DESPITE SUCCESS
STORIES THE RESULTS OF HOME
ENERGY AUDIT PROGRAMS OVERALL
HAVE OFTEN CONSIDERED BEEN
CONSIDERED DISAPPOINTING
RELATIVE.
A FEW HOUSEHOLDS UNDERTAKE
AUDITS AND WHEN THEY DO UPGRADE
RECOMMENDATIONS ARE OFTEN NOT
ACTED UPON AND THOUGH THERE IS
CLEARLY REMAINING TECHNOLOGY
POTENTIAL, LITTLE HAS BEEN
PROVEN ABOUT THE OVERALL ENERGY
SAVINGS THAT RESULTS FROM
AUDITS AND RESULTING UPGRADES
NOT THE EXTENT TO WHICH ACTUAL
SOCIAL BEHAVIOR CAN REACH
TECHNICAL POTENTIAL.
AND I THINK THE POINT IS IS
THAT THIS REINFORCES WHAT THE
PORTLAND 30 MONTH REPORT SHOWED
AND THAT WAS THAT BIAS SIMPLY
DON'T MAKE UPGRADES AND CHANGES
BASED ON HAVING AN AUDIT IN
HAND.
THEY'RE TAPPED OUT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
OUR AVERAGE SELLING PRICE OVER
YEAR-TO-DATE IS SIX HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS UP
THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM A
YEAR AGO.
PRICES ARE CLIMBING WHEN
SOMEONE BUYS A HOUSE THEY
THEY'RE ALL IN THEY SPENT IT
THEY REALLY DON'T HAVE DOLLARS
TO PUT INTO IT.
AND THEN ALSO ALSO THE WAY THAT
WE'RE LOOKING TO IMPLEMENT THIS
REALLY HAS A TREMENDOUS COST.
WE'RE HIRING A STAFF ASSESSOR.
WE LOOK AT THAT THE EXPENSE
OF THAT STAFF ALL IN WITH THEIR
THEIR BENEFITS AND SUCH WHEN WE
LOOK AT CONTRACTING OUT FOR
PEAK TIMES, WHICH PROBABLY WILL
BE AT LEAST HALF OF THEM WOULD
BE THE ASSUMPTION DURING THOSE
PEAK MONTHS THEY'RE JUST SIMPLY
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO YOU
LOOK AT ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS,
TECHNOLOGY COST ARE GOING BACK
OUT IN THE END AND REALLY THE
ENFORCEMENT SIDE OF IT THIS IS
A YOU KNOW WELL MORE THAN
200000 YEAR VENTURE INTO DOING
THESE THIRTEEN FOURTEEN FIFTEEN
HUNDRED HOMES A YEAR.
SO I WOULD REALLY JUST SIMPLY
SAY THAT THERE'S GOT TO BE A
BETTER WAY TO DO THIS.
LET'S FIND ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
THAT WANT TO HAVE THIS DONE AND
HAVE THE FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO
BE ABLE TO MAKE THE KIND
OF IMPROVEMENTS THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR TO HELP US ACHIEVE
OUR TWO ZERO GOALS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PATRICK MCVEY.
I'M A REAL ESTATE BROKER AND
MANAGER OF THE RHINEHART
REALTORS OFFICE LOCATED AT TWO
FOUR OR FIVE TO EAST STADIUM
BOULEVARD.
I'M HERE TO TO SPEAK IN
OPPOSITION TO THE HEARD
ORDINANCE.
I CERTAINLY DO APPLAUD THE
CITY'S EFFORTS TO ADVANCE
ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSCIOUS AND
SUSTAINABLE HOUSING.
I FEAR THAT THE ORDINANCE AS
CURRENTLY ENVISIONED SACRIFICES
THAT GOAL IN EXCHANGE FOR WHAT
IS GOING TO POSSIBLY CREATE AN
UNEQUAL PLAYING GROUND FOR THE
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN ORDER FOR THE
ORDINANCE TO ACHIEVE ITS STATED
PURPOSE.
I BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE TWO
ASSUMPTIONS WHICH WE NEED TO
TAKE AS TRUE ONE THAT THE
PURCHASER PIECE OF REAL ESTATE
IS WILLING TO PAY A PREMIUM FOR
A HIGHER ENERGY SCORE HOME AND
TO THAT THAT PREMIUM OUTWEIGHS
IS GREATER THAN THE COST
OF PURSUING THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
ARE GOING TO BE REQUIRED TO GET
THAT HIGHER HOME ENERGY SCORE.
WHAT HOMES ARE GOING TO BE ABLE
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THAT
PLAYING FIELD?
WELL, IT'S GOING TO BE OUR
HOMES WITH HIGHER EARNING
INCOME FAMILY MEMBERS INSIDE
OF THAT HOME AND AS ENVISIONED
THE CITY ORDINANCE WOULD HAVE A
CITY EMPLOYEE OPERATING WITHIN
A CITY FRAMEWORK COME IN,
INSPECT THE PREMISES NOT TO
GIVE A PASS FAIL AS
WE MIGHT
SEE ON A BUILDING INSPECTION OR
A BUILDING PERMIT TYPE
INSPECTION BUT INSTEAD A
EVALUATION, A SLIDING SCALE.
NO, THERE IS GOING TO
OSTENSIBLY ADD VALUE OR DETRACT
VALUE FROM A PARTICULAR PIECE
OF REAL ESTATE.
SO I HAVE THAT THAT BASELINE
CONCERN BEYOND THAT I WOULD
CALL THE COUNCIL'S ATTENTION TO
SECTION EIGHT SIX OH FOUR
OF THE ORDINANCE WHICH
DISCUSSES SEVERAL AREA OR
SEVERAL TYPES OF REAL ESTATE
WHICH WOULD NOT BE SUBJECT TO
THE ORDINANCE NAMELY EIGHT SIX
OH FOR ONE.
IT'S DIFFICULT FOR ME TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS SECTION IS
TALKING ABOUT.
I CANNOT TELL IF IT IS RELATED
TO THE SALE OF ONE BUILDING
CONTAINING MULTIPLE UNITS OR IF
IT IS RELATED TO THE SALE OF A
SINGLE UNIT WHICH IS IN A
BUILDING CONFIGURATION IT WOULD
BE STACKED VERTICALLY IF IT IS
THAT LATTER SITUATION IT WOULD
CREATE SOME INCONGRUOUS RESULTS
IN CERTAIN NEIGHBORHOODS.
TAKE THE LEMIEUX'S CONDOMINIUM
DEVELOPMENT FOR EXAMPLE.
THAT'S A CONDOMINIUM
DEVELOPMENT THAT CONTAINS UNITS
WHICH ARE BOTH STACKED
VERTICALLY AND ADJOINING
LATERALLY IN A TOWNHOME
CONFIGURATION UNDER THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE TO ME IT WOULD SEEM
THAT SOME OF THOSE UNIT OWNERS
WOULD BE OBLIGATED TO COMPLY
WHEREAS OTHERS WOULDN'T DESPITE
THEIR SAME RELATIVE VOICE IN
THAT CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION
AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS WITHIN
THEIR UNITS.
ALSO WITH RESPECT TO EIGHT DASH
FOUR I PROBABLY ACCEPTS
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
I DON'T SEE COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS DEFINED ANYWHERE
WITHIN THE ORDINANCE OR
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY CODE THAT
IS BEING POINTED TO AND THEN
EIGHT SIX OH FOUR OR FIVE
BROADLY EXEMPTS THE SAME
CATEGORIES OF REAL ESTATE THAT
WOULD BE EXEMPT FROM THE
MICHIGAN SELLER'S DISCLOSURE
ACT.
I'M NOT SURE WHY THAT WOULD
EXIST IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE AN
INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY COME IN
AND ASSESS THE PROPERTY THE
MICHIGAN SELLERS DISCLOSURE ACT
RELATES TO DISCLOSURES THAT'LL
BE REQUIRED BASED ON THE
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF A SELLER
IF WE'RE NOT INVOLVING THE
SELLER IN MAKING THIS
DISCLOSURE, I'M NOT SURE WHY
THERE'S IN THERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M NANCY BIOBANK AND I'M A
RESIDENT OF THE CITY ANN ARBOR.
I LIVE IT THREE FIVE TWO FIVE
STURBRIDGE COURT AND WERE TO
I'M JUST HERE TO SAY THAT I
LIKE THE TWO GENTLEMEN FOR ME
APPLAUD THE COUNCILS AND THE
CITY'S EFFORTS TO ESTABLISH
SOME SORT OF A PROGRAM TO
REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT.
BUT I ALSO HAVE CONCERNS THAT
THIS ORDINANCE WITH THE THINGS
THAT WERE EXPRESSED BY THE
FORMER TRUE GENTLEMAN HAS SOME
ISSUES THAT NEED TO BE WORKED
OUT BEFORE MOVING FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS THERE ANYONE
ONLINE WE'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING AND I'M
JUST GAVAGE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ADAM JUST AGAIN
FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I'M VERY GLAD TO SEE THE HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
ORDINANCE IN FRONT OF YOU
TONIGHT AND I URGE YOU TO
APPROVE IT.
I DO WISH THERE WERE FEWER
EXEMPTIONS BUT I HOPE FUTURE
PROGRAMS WILL ADDRESS
PROPERTIES SUCH AS MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING.
THIS INFORMATION IS ESSENTIAL
FOR HOMEBUYERS TO HAVE
AVAILABLE TO THEM AS WELL AS
FOR TENANTS AND AS THE CITY
WILL BE PROVIDING THE
ASSESSMENT FOR FREE, IT'S AN
ENTIRELY REASONABLE REQUIREMENT
AS A HOMEOWNER I BELIEVE THAT
IF ANYTHING THIS DISCLOSURE
WILL ENCOURAGE ME TO MAKE
UPGRADES BECAUSE IT'S LIKELY I
WILL BE ABLE TO RECOUP MOST
OF THOSE COSTS IF AND WHEN I
SELL MY HOUSE INCREASING THE
ROIC BEYOND MY OWN UTILITY COST
AND CARBON SAVINGS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ALEX FROM SADARA.
AS SOMEONE WHO BOUGHT A HOUSE A
FEW YEARS AGO AND IS NOW IN THE
PROCESS OF SELLING A HOUSE BOTH
WITHIN CITY LIMITS AND WHO HAS
GONE GONE FROM BOTH SIDES
OF THE PURCHASING SIDE AND HAS
HAD THE FORTUNE OF BEING ABLE
TO BE CHOOSY ABOUT WHERE I
RENTED IT AND I RATHER I MUST
SAY I AM REALLY STRONGLY IN
FAVOR OF THIS AS SOMEONE WHO'S
GOING TO BE GOING TO BE LOOKING
TO EITHER BUY OR FAIRLY SOON.
THIS WILL GIVE ME FAR MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE HOUSE
THAN I WAS PRIVY TO THE LAST
TIME THAT I HAD A HOUSE THAT I
WAS BUYING.
FORTUNATELY I HAPPENED TO TO
LOOK OUT ON THAT BUT YOU YOU
NEVER KNOW UNLESS IT'S
MENTIONED AS SOMEONE WHO WHO
WAS PREVIOUSLY RENTING IT OUT
ARBOR AND GOT OFFERED SOME VERY
QUESTIONABLE ROLES IN SOME VERY
UNINSULATED OR OLD HOUSING WITH
FOUR SHALL WE SAY EXORBITANT
PRICES.
I WOULD I WOULD I THINK THIS
AND THE STEPS THAT WE CAN TAKE
THE ON THE HOME ENERGY RATINGS
DISCLOSURE WILL WILL MAKE THAT
INFORMATION PUBLIC SO THAT
PEOPLE DON'T HAVE TO GO LOOK
AND AND SEE THIS PLACE THAT
THAT'S OFFERING YOU RENTAL OF A
ROOM HAS A HAS A SINGLE PANE
WINDOW THAT THAT HAS A HOLE IN
IT.
SO HEATING BILL THIS IS GOING
TO BE SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS A
MONTH FOR A SINGLE ROOM AND IN
WINTER AND AS A HOMEOWNER WHOSE
IS NOW LOOKING TO SELL MY HOME
THIRTY SECONDS IT'S PRETTY
GREAT GREAT TO ME.
I A BIG BELIEVER IN FAIRNESS
AND I BELIEVE THAT HAS PUT ME
ON AN EQUAL FOOTING WITH WITH
OTHER HOMEOWNERS WITH OTHER
THAN MY HOME BECAUSE THEY'LL
HAVE MORE OF THE FACTS AND
FACTS ARE REALLY WHAT WHAT WE
ALL NEED TO MAKE OUR DECISIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH YOUR HANDS UP
.
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO.
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
AMENDED THREE ZERO THREE
NORTHWICK THREE ONE TWO THREE
ONE FORD DETROIT REDEVELOPMENT
BROWNFIELD PLAN.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE I'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING GOOD.
I'M GREG COPP WITH THREE THIRTY
DETROIT STREET WHERE THE
LOCALLY BASED DEVELOPER OF THE
PROJECT AT TWENTY SEVEN TWENTY
THREE SOUTH STATE STREET.
WE JUST I JUST WANT TO NOTE
THAT WE AGREE WITH THE STAFF
REPORT THAT MAKES
RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL
BASED ON THE FACT THAT WE MEET
THE CITY'S BROWNFIELD POLICY IN
THE STATE BROWNFIELD AKRA RENTS
AND I'M HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OR ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MARY, HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
?
SEE NO.
AND FURTHER THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED ONE WE HAVE BEFORE US
THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF AUGUST SEVEN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AND SPECIAL WORK
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST FIFTEEN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MOVES BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER GOZI EDWYN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF MINUTES ON FABER
POSED THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED
B1 AND ORDENES TO AMEND THE
ZONING MAP BEING PART
OF SECTION FIVE ONE TEN SECTION
FIVE TEN POINT TWO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ZONING
OF ELEVEN CITY INITIATED
ANNEXED PARCELS ON NEWPORT
RHODE BYRD ROAD AND VICTORIA
CIRCLE FROM GWP TOWNSHIP TO R-1
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS THANK YOU.
SO WE ARE ASKED TO REZONE
ELEVEN CITY AND CITY INITIATED
ANNEXED PROPERTIES ON NEWPORT
ROAD BOARD ROAD IN VICTORIA
CIRCLE FROM T WP TOWNSHIP TO
OUR ONE DAY I WANT TO THANK
EVERYONE WHO PARTICIPATED IN
CAME FOR THE PUBLIC HEARING.
WE'VE HEARD SOME VERY
THOUGHTFUL COMMENTS ABOUT OUR
ONE DAY.
MANY OF THEM HAVE FOCUSED ON
CONCERNS ABOUT THINGS THAT YOU
FEEL COULD BE LOST.
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT TO SAY
THAT NOTHING WILL CHANGE ON ANY
OF THESE PROPERTIES UNLESS THEY
ARE SOLD AND DEVELOPED ZONING
ITSELF DOES NOT CHANGE
ANYTHING.
IT DOESN'T FORCE ANY CHANGE NOW
IT IS TRUE THAT PLANNING STAFF
RECOMMENDED ARE ONE WHICH IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES PLANNING COMMISSION
AND CITY COUNCIL HAVE
DISCRETION TO RECONSIDER STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS IN LIGHT
OF POLICY PRIORITIES.
BOTH ARE 1A AND R1 D RESTRICT
DEVELOPMENT TO FREESTANDING
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
AS YOU HAVE HEARD, THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THEM IS THAT R 1A PREVENTS FROM
BUILDING A HOME ON ANYTHING
LESS THAN A TWENTY
THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT LOT THAT'S ROUGHLY
HALF AN ACRE AND R1 D LETS YOU
BUILD A SINGLE FAMILY HOME ON A
FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT PLOT
TO REQUIRE HALF AN ACRE AS A
MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME IS A BARRIER TO
ENTRY INTO THIS COMMUNITY.
MANY PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR SEE THIS HALF ACRE
MINIMUM AS A RELIC OF A PAST
THAT THEY NO LONGER ENDORSE THE
RESOUNDING SUPPORT FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE
SUGGESTS THAT OUR ONE D IS MORE
IN LINE WITH RESIDENTS VALUES,
PRIORITIES AND ASPIRATIONS.
TODAY AGAIN THAT DOES NOT MEAN
THAT THIS REZONING WILL CHANGE
ANYTHING IT WILL NOT UNLESS
PEOPLE CHOOSE TO SELL OR
SUBDIVIDE THEIR PROPERTIES.
NOW BY FAR THE LARGEST OF THESE
OCCUPIED PROPERTIES TWENTY
SEVEN SEVENTY FIVE NEWPORT,
RHODE IS OWNED BY THE RUDOLF
STEINER SCHOOL AND HOUSES THEIR
LOWER SCHOOL CAMPUS WHICH IS
ENROLLED TO CAPACITY BY
STUDENTS FROM PRESCHOOL THROUGH
EIGHTH GRADE AND THEY HAVE
WAITLISTS ARE WENDY ZONING WILL
HAVE NO IMPACT ON THIS PROPERTY
UNLESS STEINER SELLS IT AND
IT'S DEVELOPED.
I SPOKE WITH YOUR DIRECTOR DR.
OWEN CRUZ AND I QUOTE HER WE
HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO INTEREST IN
MOVING AT ALL.
WE PLAN TO BE THERE FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS.
IN OTHER WORDS, NO PLAN TO SELL
GERALD ALCHIN OLDER OF TWENTY
SEVEN THIRTY SEVEN NEWPORT,
RHODE WAS HERE AND SPOKE FOR
HIMSELF.
HE WOULD NOT TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THE ADDITIONAL DENSITY THIS
ZONING PROVIDES.
SO LET'S TURN TO THE VACANT
PROPERTIES.
THERE ARE TWO VACANT PROPERTIES
AND IF THEY WERE DEVELOPED THE
COMMUNITY WOULD SEE AT MOST
THIRTEEN THIRTEEN NEW SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES ON FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT.
LOTTE'S ONE OF THE PARCELS IS A
ROUGHLY ONE ACRE PARCEL THAT
COULD ACCOMMODATE A MAXIMUM
OF FOUR HOMES.
IT WOULD BE MAX TO IF ZONED
ARWANI.
THE OTHER IS A PARCEL NORTH
OF TWENTY ONE EIGHTEEN VICTORIA
CIRCLE COMMONLY OWNED WITH
ADJACENT PROPERTY THAT HAS A
HOME ON IT.
IF HOUSING WERE DEVELOPED ON
THIS PROPERTY TEN HOMES ARE
POSSIBLE BUT EIGHT TO NINE ARE
MORE LIKELY GIVEN THE
CONSTRAINTS OF A POND ON THE
PROPERTY IT WOULD BE MAXIMUM
FOUR OR FIVE IF ZONED R1 HEY SO
COUNCIL IS ZONING DESIGNATION
MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO CREATE
JUST SIX OR SEVEN MORE HOMES
THAN ARWANI FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVORITE HOUSE IT IS
APPROVED WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT BE TO AN
AUDIENCE.
ADD CHAPTER ONE ZERO SIX HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE TO
TITLE EIGHT BUILDING
REGULATIONS THE CODE OF THE
CITY BANABA.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION.
OH MR. ER A MEMBER OF THE
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TONIGHT WE HAVE I
BELIEVE FIVE QUESTIONS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED TO THE FIRST
QUESTION IF A PERSON OWNS FIVE
PROPERTIES AND SELLS ALL
OF THEM BUT DOESN'T DISCLOSE
THE HURT ASSESSMENT FOR ANY
OF THEM THEY WILL OWE FORTY
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT.
HER PENALTIES ARE FIVE FOR THE
FIRST OFFENSE AND AN ADDITIONAL
ONE THOUSAND FOR EACH
SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE RUSHING TO
WOODENNESS CITY EMPLOYED
BUILDING INSPECTOR I ALREADY
HAVE THE FIRST LEVEL
CERTIFICATION FOR OUR FIRST
AUDITOR COULD RECEIVE TRAINING
TO BECOME THE AUDITORS OR COULD
THE CITY HIRE ADDITIONAL
INSPECTORS AND PAY FOR THEIR
TRAINING RESPONSE?
THE HEARD ORDINANCE REQUIRES US
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OUR HOME
ENERGY SCORE WHICH IS ACTUALLY
DIFFERENT FROM A HERS RATING
WAS I AS WE'VE SAID BEFORE AND
YOU HEARD IN PUBLIC COMMENT IS
HIRING A FULL TIME ENERGY
ASSESSOR TO OFFER FREE HOME
ENERGY FOR ASSESSMENTS.
ADDITIONALLY, THE USSI IS
PREPARED TO SUBSIDIZE THE COST
OF TRAINING FOR NON STAFF
ASSESSORS AS WELL AS FOR STAFF
IF THEY WERE INTERESTED TO
BECOME ENERGY CERTIFIED.
AND WE'RE PREPARED TO WORK WITH
THE PRIVATE SECTOR MARKETPLACE
TO BRING MORE ASSESSORS IN
DURING PERIODS HIGH DEMAND
QUESTION THREE IN THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE IT LOOKS LIKE THE
ONLY REVENUE IS IF SOMEONE
DOESN'T COMPLETE A HERD
ASSESSMENT OR DISCLOSE.
IS THAT CORRECT RESPONSE?
THAT IS CORRECT QUESTION FOR IF
THE CITY WERE TO PERFORM HERR'S
ASSESSMENTS AS PART OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION
INSPECTION INSTEAD OF DURING A
REAL STATE TRANSACTION, WOULD
IT BE POSSIBLE TO GET ANY
ENERGY TESTS LIKE FLORIDA OR
TESTS OR HELP WITH UPGRADING
LOW SCORE TO ITEMS DONATED FOR
HOMEOWNERS WHO MAKE UP 60
PERCENT?
AM I HAVE DISABILITIES OR
SENIORS OR A PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP PILOT OR ZERO
ENERGY HOME UPGRADE FUND RUN BY
THE CITY OR AS PART OF A
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT
RESPONSE NEW CONSTRUCTION MUST
ADHERE TO THE STATE'S BUILDING
CODE WHEREAS EXISTING BUILDINGS
DO NOT THE HEARD ORDINANCE
BEFORE COUNCIL IS ABOUT
DISCLOSING THE HOME ENERGY
SCORE ON EXISTING BUILDINGS.
SO WE JUST WANT TO
DIFFERENTIATE TO THE QUESTION
ABOUT NEW BUILDINGS RIGHT NOW
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN IS
CONSIDERING UPDATES TO BOTH THE
MICHIGAN UNIFORM ENERGY
CODE AND THE MICHIGAN ENERGY
CODE OVERSIGHT STAFF AND MANY
COLLABORATORS ARE WORKING HARD
TO ENSURE THAT WE HAVE A
STATEWIDE ENERGY AND BUILDING
CODE THAT PROTECTS PUBLIC
HEALTH, SAFETY, GENERAL OFFER
AND OF COURSE OUR CLIMATE.
IF ADOPTED, THESE CODES WILL
ENSURE THAT NEW BUILDINGS ARE
MUCH MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT THAN
WHAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE ON THE
MARKETPLACE.
HOWEVER, SINCE THE BUILDING
CODE IS NOT RELEVANT TO
EXISTING BUILDINGS, OSHA STAFF
LEAVE THE HERD ORDINANCE IS AN
IMPORTANT ELEMENT OF OUR
LANDSCAPE TO ENSURE PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN SAFE, HEALTHY AND
AFFORDABLE HOMES REGARDLESS
OF IF THOSE ARE NEW HOMES OR
EXISTING HOMES.
PUT ANOTHER WAY THE HERD
ORDINANCE IS ONLY ONE PIECE
OF THE ECOSYSTEM OF WORK TO
PROTECT CONSUMERS AND HELP
IMPROVE THE ENERGY PERFORMANCE
OF OUR BUILT ENVIRONMENT IN
ADDITION TO HER DO WE HAVE OUR
WORK AT THE STATE BUILDING AND
ENERGY?
AS I JUST MENTIONED BEFORE, WE
HAVE THE ENERGY AND WATER
BENCHMARKING ORDINANCE WHICH
ALREADY REQUIRES MULTIFAMILY
AND COMMERCIAL SITES TO
DISCLOSE ANNUALLY OUR ENERGY
AND WATER USAGE.
WE HAVE THE HOME ENERGY
ADVISORY SERVICE AND WE HAVE A
SOON TO BE RELEASED RESIDENTIAL
REBATES AS WELL AS SOLAR
PROGRAM AND NUMEROUS
EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES THAT WE
WORK ON.
ADDITIONALLY, MY STAFF ARE AND
WILL CONTINUE TO EXPLORE
OPTIONS TO FURTHER SUPPORT
RESIDENTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE
MAKING 60 TO 80 PERCENT
ANNUALLY OR LESS ONE SUCH
RESOURCE IS THE INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT, WHICH PROVIDES
UNPRECEDENTED FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE TO ALL U.S.
HOMEOWNERS FOR EFFICIENCY AND
ELECTRIFICATION UPGRADES.
THE TIERED BENEFIT STRUCTURE
STARTS AT 80 PERCENT AMONG THE
LOCAL REBATES COMING THROUGH
THE VA THROUGH OUR LOCAL
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION WHICH
WILL TAKE THESE IOWAY BENEFITS
EVEN FURTHER AND ADDITIONALLY
THE SITE HAS ALREADY PILOTED
TWO PROGRAMS TO PROVIDE
HOMEOWNERS WITH TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND GUIDANCE FOR
IMPROVEMENTS.
THOSE INCLUDE THE AGING IN
PLACE EFFICIENTLY PROGRAM
DESIGNED FOR OLDER ADULTS AND
HOME ENERGY ADVISER PROGRAM
THAT WE TALKED ABOUT RECENTLY.
ADDITIONALLY, THE AGENCY IS
ALREADY PREPARING A RESOURCE
HUB TO HELP RESIDENTS ACCESS
THESE INCENTIVES AND ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS WHEN THEY BECOME
AVAILABLE.
SO THESE WILL STACK WITH THE
HERD NOT REPLACE IT.
AND FIFTH QUESTION WHAT IN THE
AUDIENCE IS WRITTEN SHOWS THAT
WE ARE A DATA DRIVEN CITY.
HOW WILL WE TRACK THE NUMBER
OF ASSESSMENTS IF THEY GO
THROUGH A PRIVATE PROVIDER?
NOT ALL REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTIONS GO THROUGH A
REALTOR BUT ALL NEW BUILDS AND
NON MINOR RENOVATIONS DO GO
THROUGH THE CITY.
THE RESPONSE THOUGH IS I WILL
EASILY BE ABLE TO TRACK THE
FREE ASSESSMENTS BECAUSE THEY
WILL BE PROVIDED EITHER THROUGH
THOSE EYES ON STAFF ASSESSOR OR
THROUGH A CONTRACT WITH ONE
OF THE LOCAL FIRMS THAT WE
EMPLOY FOR ANY ASSESSMENT
THAT'S DONE OUTSIDE OF THOSE
OPTIONS AS WELL AS THOSE DONE
THROUGH THOSE TWO OPTIONS ABOVE
THE ORDINANCE REQUIRES
HOMEOWNERS TO SUBMIT PROOF
OF THEIR HOME ENERGY SCORE TO
THE OUTSIDE DIRECTOR PRIOR
LISTING OR DURING THE LISTING
PROCESS.
THIS ALLOWS OUTSIDE TO TRACK
ALL COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENTS AND
RELEVANT SCORES.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
I AM REMINDED SINCE I'M I'M NEW
TO THIS JOB THAT I HAVE
FORGOTTEN TO MOVE ON SECOND
HAVE HAVE THIS OR BE MOVED AND
SECONDED SO I HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE MOVE OVER DENHA SECOND
MY DISH DISCUSSION WOULD BE TO
DISH YES THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE THE SUBS
TO TUTE ORDINANCE THAT WAS
PROVIDED ON THE AGENDA THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCILOR
BRIGGS.
THANK YOU.
THE FRIENDLY OF THE BODY THE
BODY KAZMIR DISHES STILL THE
FLOOR UM WELL I WANTED TO MAKE
TWO AMENDMENTS TO IT BUT I
THINK I'M NOT SUPPOSED TO DO
THAT YET.
I AM OK COOL.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M SORRY.
I THINK I MISUNDERSTOOD AN
EMAIL THAT I RECEIVED.
SO NOW I'M I'M I'LL SIGN.
SO THE TWO AMENDMENTS I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE TO THE SUBSTITUTE
ORDINANCE UM WOULD BOTH BE IN
SECTION TWO EFFECTIVE DATE THE
FIRST AMENDMENT I SENT THIS TO
MISS BEAUDRY COULD YEP.
UM SO THE FIRST AMOUNT WOULD
TAKE THIS ORDINANCE SHALL TAKE
EFFECT ON UH ON AND AFTER IS
RIGHT ON AND AFTER ONE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY DAYS FROM
PUBLICATION THEREOF SO THAT'S
THE EFFECTIVE DATE AND ALTHOUGH
I'M A LITTLE CONFUSED BY THAT
WORDING THOUGH IT IS WHAT I
RECEIVED UM IT IS SAYING THAT
THIS IS JUST TRUE ALWAYS THAT
ORDINANCES TAKE EFFECT AFTER
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS
FROM ITS PUBLICATION.
UM AND THE THING IS IS THAT THE
SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE HAS A
SPECIFIC DATE AND WE DON'T KNOW
IF WE'LL MAKE THAT SO WE'RE
JUST TRADING THE SPECIFIC DATE
FOR THE 180 DAYS AND IF THERE'S
SOME SCRIBNER'S ISSUE THERE, UM
WE CAN I DON'T THINK IT'S A
PROBLEM AND THEN I WOULD ADD
ONE MORE SENTENCE TO FOLLOW THE
SENTENCE ABOVE.
BUT LET'S GO FOR THE FIRST ONE
FIRST.
YEAH, PERHAPS A SECOND OF THAT.
I'M COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL.
IS THAT FROM THE BODY THAT IS
TO SAY WITH THE SUBSTITUTE
ORDINANCE HAVING IT BE
EFFECTIVE ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY DAYS AFTER APPROVAL
RATHER THAN A DATE CERTAIN WAS
FINALLY THE BODY AFTER THIS YOU
STILL THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU.
SO THE OTHER ONE THAT YOU MIGHT
OR MIGHT NOT JUDGE TO BE
FRIENDLY IS THAT ENFORCEMENT
FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WOULD NOT
COMMENCE UNTIL WILL NOT
COMMENCE UNTIL 180 DAYS AFTER
THE EFFECTIVE DATE.
SO WHAT THIS IS SAYING IS THAT
WHILE THE ORDINANCE CONTAINS
FINES ONCE IT IS EFFECTIVE
THOSE FINES THERE WOULD BE A
GRACE PERIOD OF SIX MONTHS
OF ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS
BEFORE THOSE FINES WOULD BE
COLLECTED AND THEY WOULDN'T BE
COLLECTED RETROACTIVELY EITHER
.
SO THAT'S WHY YOU ASK LAWYERS
TO WRITE THESE
ENFORCEMENT FOR
NONCOMPLIANCE WILL NOT COMMENCE
UNTIL 180 DAYS AFTER THE
EFFECTIVE DATE.
IS THERE A SECOND QUESTION BY
COUNCILOR DENHA IS THAT FROM
THE BODY THE BODY MODISH IS
STILL THE FLOOR.
OH I'M SORRY.
MY APOLOGIES.
THAT IS FOR THE SECOND.
ALL RIGHT.
SO FORGET I SAID THAT COUNCILOR
BREAKS.
I JUST WANTED TO CONFIRM THAT
DR. STULTS HAD HAD BEEN
CONSULTED ON THIS AND THAT SHE
HAD NO CONCERNS WITH US.
>> SORRY I HAVE TO SPEAK.
YES.
NO SHE HAD NO CONCERNS.
YES, SHE WAS CONSULTED.
NO SHE HAD NO CONCERNS THEN AND
IT'S FRIENDLY TO ME OFF
COUNCILOR IS SHE STILL THE
FLOOR?
OH NO.
YOU WAVED US OFF COUNCILOR
BRAKES.
THANK YOU.
AND I JUST WANTED TO SAY, YOU
KNOW, THIS ORDINANCE HAS BEEN A
LONG TIME IN COMING AND IT CAME
TO ENERGY COMMISSION IN
SEPTEMBER OF LAST YEAR BUT IT'S
BEEN IN THE WORKS FOR MUCH
LONGER.
YOU'LL SEE IN PART OF OUR
UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED CLIMATE
ACTION PLAN OF 2020 STRATEGY
THREE ACTION FOUR TO DO US.
AND SO OBVIOUSLY WHEN THE
VOTERS APPROVED THE CLIMATE
MILLAGE THERE WAS AN
EXPECTATION THAT WE WERE GOING
TO BE MOVING RAPIDLY TO BE
DOING THIS WORK IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
IT'S REALLY EXCITING WORK THAT
THAT WE ARE DOING AND HAVE NOW
MOVED AWAY FROM THE PAGE THAT I
WAS GOING TO READ FROM TWO
SHARE ALL OF THE STATS ABOUT
HOW MUCH CLIMATE CLIMATE
EMERGENCY IS IMPACTING OUR OWN
COMMUNITY.
BUT YOU CAN FIND THOSE STATS
WITHIN OUR CLIMATE ACTION PLAN.
YOU KNOW THIS IS IT BEEN
DEBATED PRETTY EXTENSIVELY
AROUND THE THE ENERGY
COMMISSION TABLE AND ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE'VE HEARD AS A
COMMISSION OVER AND OVER AGAIN
IS WHEN IS THIS COMING TO
COUNCIL?
AND WHAT I RESPECT IS THAT EVEN
THOUGH THERE IS THAT URGENCY
THERE, THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION HAS DONE THE WORK TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE REACHING
OUT TO STAKEHOLDERS AND
LISTENING ALONG THE WAY TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THOSE BLOCK
BLOCKS BLOCKADES MIGHT BE IN
THE COMMUNITY.
WHAT WHAT CONCERNS HAVE COME UP
AND HAD INTEGRATED THEM IN EVEN
FROM FIRST READING WE'VE SEEN A
NEW PROPOSED AMENDMENT TONIGHT
OUR NEW PROPOSAL WHICH IS GOING
TO AS I MY UNDERSTANDING BRING
US BACK TO FIRST READING FOR
THIS EVENING SO THIS WILL SLOW
DOWN THE PROCESS A LITTLE BIT
AND MEAN THERE WOULD BE A
SECOND READING SUBSEQUENTLY AND
A FAIR AMOUNT MORE TIME FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND AND COUNCIL AT
LARGE TO GET MORE FAMILIAR WITH
THE THE ORDINANCE IN FRONT
OF US TO ASK QUESTIONS TO MAKE
SURE WE HAVE ALL THE
INFORMATION TO MAKE AN INFORMED
INFORMED DECISION.
BUT I'M JUST VERY GRATEFUL TO
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
FOR ALL THE WORK THAT'S BEEN
DONE ON THIS COUNCIL.
>> MAHASEN I TOO AM VERY
GRATEFUL TO THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION FOR ALL THE HARD
WORK THEY'VE DONE THIS I WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE TO POSTPONE THE
FIRST READING REGARDING THE
HOME ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
ORDINANCE UNTIL OUR OCTOBER 2ND
MEETING THIS TO ENSURE WE ARE
EMBRACING AN INCLUSIVE AND WIDE
REACHING APPROACH TO ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
THE STRUCTURE I'VE HEARD OF THE
HEARD ORDINANCE SOLELY TARGETS
ITS USE DURING DURING THE REAL
ESTATE TRANSACTION AND HOWEVER
I BELIEVE WE HAVE THE CHANCE TO
SHAPE AN APPROACH THAT IMPACTS
OUR COMMUNITY MORE PROFOUNDLY
BY LOOKING AT SUCCESSFUL, MORE
ENCOMPASSING MODELS FROM OTHER
CITIES ONES THAT DON'T INVOLVE
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
I BELIEVE WE WE WE CAN
APPRECIATE HOW THEY'RE THEY ARE
INTEGRATED INTEGRATING THE HERS
ASSESSMENT INTO HOUSING
POLICIES AT MULTIPLE STAGES NOT
JUST DURING THE REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTION.
THIS BROADER APPLICATION
ENSURES THAT ALL HOMEOWNERS
WHETHER THEY'RE BUYING, SELLING
OR STAYING PUT CAN BENEFIT FROM
ENHANCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
THIS POSTPONEMENT WILL GRANT US
THE INVALUABLE TIME TO REFLECT
ON THESE INTEGRATIONS AND DRAFT
A POLICY THAT'S BEST TAILORED
TO ENABLE UNIQUE NEEDS.
THIS PROPOSAL IS TO ENSURE THAT
WE GET THIS RIGHT.
WE DO OWE IT TO OUR CITY AND
ITS RESIDENTS TO MAKE DECISIONS
THAT ARE NOT JUST PROGRESSIVE
BUT ALSO ALL ENCOMPASSING AND
ROOTED AND PROVEN BEST
PRACTICES AND LONG TERM ENERGY
EFFICIENCY, CARBON NEUTRALITY
AND DATA COLLECTION.
I DO URGE MY FELLOW COUNCIL
MEMBERS TO CONSIDER THIS
PROPOSAL AND THE TREMENDOUS
POTENTIAL IT HOLDS HOLDS FOR
OUR COLLECTIVE JOURNEY TOWARDS
CARBON NEUTRALITY.
>> IS THERE A SECOND?
>> A SECOND THE COUNCIL ON
BRITISH DE DISCUSSION ON THE
POSTPONEMENT CANCER BREAKS I
WAS ONE TO JUST FIND OUT A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THE
DESIRE FOR POSTPONEMENT IN
TERMS OF YOUR COMMENTS, IT
SOUNDED LIKE YOU WERE IF I WAS
LISTENING CORRECTLY YOU ARE
LOOKING FOR AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DO THIS WORK OUTSIDE OF THE
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION WHICH
SOUNDS LIKE A PROCESS THAT
WOULDN'T BE NECESSARILY
POSTPONING THIS BUT IS ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT FROM THAT.
SO I WAS LOOKING FOR A LITTLE
BIT OF CLARIFICATION AROUND
KIND OF THE GOALS
OF POSTPONEMENT AND THEN
SECONDARY.
I WAS HOPING THAT A STOLTZ
MIGHT BE ABLE TO ANSWER SORT
OF I QUESTIONS AROUND EQUITY.
I KNOW THAT THAT HAS BEEN SORT
OF AT THE CENTER OF THE WORK
OF OF LOOKING AT HEARD AND SO
THERE'S PIECES OF THAT THAT ARE
WITHIN OUR MEMO.
BUT I HAD ASKED LAST WEEK FOR
YOU TO REACH OUT TO SOME OTHER
CITIES TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
EQUITY IMPACTS OF THESE SIMILAR
ORDINANCES HAD BEEN THERE
BECAUSE WE STARTED THOSE
QUESTIONS HAVE BEEN RAISED HERE
AND HOW WE WERE GOING TO BUILD
THAT INTO OUR OWN EVALUATION
PROCESS
.
>> OH, THAT'S A QUESTION FOR DR
STAATS DEVASTATOR RIGHT.
AND I WASN'T SURE THAT'S OUR
FIRST HERE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YES, THANK YOU.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
WE DID REACH OUT TO MULTIPLE
CITIES WHO HAVE EXISTING HOME
ENERGY DISCLOSURE AUDIENCES AND
I'LL SHARE WITH YOU A WRITTEN
RESPONSE FROM ONE OF OUR
COLLEAGUES THAT WE DID GET BACK
FROM HILLSBOROUGH ORGAN IN
PARTICULAR.
WE WERE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
NOTHING IN THE MARKETPLACE
SHOWS THAT THERE IS A NEGATIVE
IMPACT IN PARTICULAR FOR LOW
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS SELLING AND
THEY SAID THEY HAVE NOT OBSERVE
OR HEARD FROM ANY REAL ESTATE
AGENTS THAT LOW SCORES ARE
NEGATIVELY AFFECTING HOME
VALUES IN HILLSBOROUGH.
THAT WAS A CONCERN THAT WAS
EXPRESSED BY MANY BEFORE THE
LAUNCH OF THEIR PROGRAM.
WE HAVE NOT SEEN OR HEARD THIS
TO BE TRUE SO I'M NOT THAT IS
IN RESPONSE TO YOUR QUESTION
BUT JUST WANTED TO SHARE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ONLY DID
YOU HAVE
COUNCILOR I TEND TO BY
THE WAY I TEND TO DO THAT I
THINK IS WELL COUNCILOR
HARRISON, DO I I GUESS WHAT IS
THE BIG QUESTION?
ARE YOU REFERRING TO THE I MEAN
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO NO.
I MEAN I KNOW A THERE'S BEEN A
QUESTION AS TO WHETHER I GUESS
IT WAS A CROSS QUESTION OR A
RHETORICAL QUESTION OR AN
ACTUAL QUESTION OR THREAT TO A
MEMBER.
I TEND TO THINK THAT IF THAT
YOU KNOW, THE WE WE TEND NOT TO
LIKE INTERROGATE EACH OTHER AND
GIVE US AND HAVE THE FLOOR GO
IF THERE'S A QUESTION ABOUT AND
I WONDER IF THEN THAT'S I
WONDER IF AND IF THE MOVER OR
SOMEBODY ELSE WANTS TO SAY
WORDS IN THE MOVE OR SOMEBODY
ELSE WANTS TO SAY WORDS IT'S SO
I HAVE A QUEUE OF ADDITIONS COS
HE DENHA OK THANK YOU.
UM I AM EXCITED ABOUT THIS
ABOUT OUR PARTICIPATING IN THIS
EMERGENT AREA OF LEGISLATION
AND BECAUSE IT IS AN EMERGENT
AREA CITIES ARE BEGINNING TO
JUMP ON BOARD PORTLAND HAS HAD
THIS ORDINANCE SINCE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN THERE ARE INCREASING
NUMBERS OF THEM.
I'D LIKE US TO BE ONE OF THEM.
UM I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S A
LOT OF AH SO THERE YOU KNOW
THERE'S THERE'S A LOT TO ASK
AND EXPLORE IN THIS AND I'M
VERY INTERESTED TO HEAR ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITIES THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON HAS FOUND FOR
AN ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY.
UM, I ALSO WANT TO RECOGNIZE
THAT STAFF HAS BEEN RESEARCHING
AND WORKING ON THIS ORDINANCE
FOR OVER A YEAR AND THAT IT HAS
GONE BEFORE THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AND I THINK IT WOULD
MAKE THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION VERY HAPPY THOUGH I
DON'T RECALL THEM ACTUALLY
WEIGHING IN ON IT.
UM, I AM INCREDIBLY STRUCK BY
STAFF'S OPENNESS TO SUGGESTION
IN RESPONSE TO SOUND IDEAS AND
WELL-FOUNDED CONCERNS.
AND SO THERE HAVE BEEN IDEAS
THAT EMERGED IN THE TWO WEEKS
BETWEEN TONIGHT AND OUR LAST
MEETING AND THERE IS A LIST IN
THE ANSWERS TO COUNCIL
QUESTIONS OF THE CHANGES THAT
WERE MADE IN THOSE TWO WEEKS
AND SO IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
THERE'S ENOUGH TIME TO CONSIDER
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON'S IDEAS
IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS BEFORE
OUR NEXT MEETING WITHOUT A
PROPOSAL, HOWEVER, I AM
CONCERNED IF WE WERE TO PROCEED
WITHOUT A POSTCODE WE WOULD
NOTICE A PUBLIC HEARING FOR A
SECOND READING AND IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT IF FURTHER
CHANGES OCCUR WE'D HAVE TO GO
BACK TO FIRST READING AGAIN
JUST AS WE DID TONIGHT AND I'M
NOT SURE THAT SEEMS A LITTLE
MESSY TO ME.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY ONE CONCERN
.
COUNCILOR GRACIELLA
, I YOU
KNOW, I ACTUALLY REALLY I
APPRECIATE THE POSTPONEMENT
THAT'S BEEN PROPOSED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON.
I, I I AGREE THAT HERD IS
SOMETHING THAT IS NECESSARY.
IT WILL PROVIDE MORE CONSUMER
PROTECTION AND PROVIDE
INCREASED TRANSPARENCY BUT
PERSONAL.
I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND MORE
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL DISPARITIES
THAT CAN OCCUR TO MIDDLE AND
LOW INCOME BUYERS FROM
RELEASING LOW SCORES AND I'M
SPECIFICALLY THINKING ABOUT
HOMEOWNERS WHO YOU KNOW, GET A
LOW SCORE AND THEN THEY DON'T
HAVE THE MONEY TO ACTUALLY MAKE
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS AND THEN
WHEN THEY GO TO THE MARKET, HOW
DO THOSE SCORES AFFECT, YOU
KNOW, THE THE VALUE OF THEIR
HOMES OR BUYERS POTENTIALLY
OFFERING LESS SUNBEDS?
UM, SO I FOR ONE, YOU KNOW, I
SUPPORT THE POSTPONEMENT.
I'D LIKE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
THAT.
I ALSO I ALSO THINK THAT GIVEN
THE REBATES AND SUBSIDIES ARE
IMPORTANT AND THEY'RE HELPFUL,
THERE'S A THERE'S A SOCIAL AND
THERE'S AN ECONOMIC COST TO
INDIVIDUALS WHO EXPERIENCE
HARDSHIP WHEN THEY'RE
UNDERGOING THOSE SORT
OF IMPROVEMENTS BEYOND JUST THE
FINANCIAL ASPECT.
SO THAT COULD INCLUDE, YOU
KNOW, HAVING TO MOVE OUT
OF YOUR HOME WON SOME
IMPROVEMENTS ARE BEING DONE OR
NAVIGATING THE COMPLEX BIDDING
PROCESS.
AND HOW MUCH TIME DO
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
ECONOMICALLY AND HOW MUCH TIME
DO THEY REALLY HAVE TO DO THAT?
SO I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
MORE ABOUT KIND OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE WRAPAROUND
ASSISTANCE THAT WE'RE GOING TO
PROVIDE PEOPLE WHO
DISPROPORTIONATELY MAY HAVE LOW
ENERGY EFFICIENCY SCORES.
COUNCILOR DENHA, THANKS MARY
TAYLOR.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT
POSTPONEMENT TONIGHT TO
OCTOBER 2ND ACKNOWLEDGING THAT
A NUMBER OF US MYSELF INCLUDED
HAVE BEEN PART OF THIS PROCESS
.
I FIRST GOT ELECTED TO COUNCIL
AND HAVE BEEN ON ENERGY
COMMISSION AND I'VE HAD TIME TO
KIND OF WORK THROUGH A LOT
OF THIS WITH OSSI AND WITH
STAFF AND I KNOW THAT THIS HAS
BEEN GETTING WORK DONE SINCE I
THINK TWENTY EIGHTEEN TWENTY
NINETEEN WHEN COMMUNITY MEMBERS
STARTED ENGAGING ON IT.
SO IT HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
COMING.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF ANTICIPATION FOR IT TO
CONTINUE MOVING FORWARD BUT I
ALSO WANT TO MAKE SURE I ECHO I
WOULD ECHO COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHES CONCERN ABOUT IF WE
CONTINUE TO KIND OF HAVE FIRST
READING OVER AND OVER AGAIN AS
AS ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS ARE
THOUGHT THROUGH.
I WOULD RATHER PROVIDE THIS
EXTRA AMOUNT OF TIME FOR FOLKS
TO THINK THROUGH ADDITIONAL
CHANGES, WORK WITH STAFF AND
COME BACK TO US WITH A
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF POTENTIAL
CHANGES FOR US TO CONSIDER AND
TO DISCUSS AT THE TABLE AS A
GROUP.
AND SO I'M WILLING TO SUPPORT
THIS THIS POSTPONEMENT BUT I DO
ALSO JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THE CONTINUED WORK THAT GOES
INTO THIS.
I KNOW THAT FOR A LOT OF ENERGY
COMMISSION MEMBERS, FOR A LOT
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE
BEEN ENGAGED IN THIS FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING, IT'S
FRUSTRATING TO CONTINUE TO SEE
THIS PROCESS SLOWED DOWN,
PARTICULARLY WHEN WE HAVE SO
MUCH WORK THAT STILL LIES AHEAD
OF US.
BUT I KNOW THAT DR. SALTZ AND
HER TEAM YOU KNOW, SHE IS HERE
WITH TONIGHT BUT SAKWA SMITH
WHO'S BEEN WORKING ON THIS
CONSIDERABLY HAVE BEEN PUTTING
A TON OF EFFORT INTO THIS.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE FOR THEM AND FOR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS, SOME
OF WHICH YOU SPOKE TONIGHT WHO
HAVE BEEN ENGAGED IN THIS
PROCESS AS WELL AND CONTINUING
TO IMPROVE AND MAKE CHANGES TO
THIS.
SO I'M WILLING TO SUPPORT
POSTPONEMENT TO OCTOBER 2ND FOR
THOSE REASONS AND HOPE THAT
ULTIMATELY IT WILL ALLOW TO
HAVE A ROBUST CONVERSATION AS A
GROUP ABOUT ALL OF THE
POTENTIAL CHANGES THAT MIGHT
COME FORWARD AND STREAMLINE
THIS PROCESS OFF.
FOR MY PART I'M GOING TO I
THINK I'M GOING TO DECLINE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO VOTE FOR A
POSTPONEMENT TONIGHT.
I APPRECIATE THAT THERE THERE
MAY BE ALTERNATE PATHS AND WISE
HAS TO TO TO AFFECT THE SORTS
OF CHANGES THE PART, THE
EFFECT, THE SORTS OF SOCIAL
GOOD THAT WE ARE CONTEMPLATING.
BYE BY CREATING THIS
INFORMATION THROUGH CHANNELS
OTHER THAN OTHER THAN AT THE
HOME PURCHASE MOMENT AND IF
INDEED AS THOSE ARE DISCOVERED
AND ARE FLESHED OUT THEN THAT I
WOULD BE INCREDIBLY EXCITED
ABOUT HAVING THOSE LAYERED ON
TOP OF LAYERED ON TOP OF AN
EXISTING AUDIENCE FROM MY PART
THE CONVERSATION I THINK WITH
RESPECT TO HEARD IS IS
RELATIVELY RIPE.
THAT IS TO SAY IT HAS GONE
THROUGH A WIDE VARIETY
OF ITERATIONS, A WIDE VARIETY
OF STAKEHOLDERS AND I THINK
IT'S IT'S IT'S SUITABLE FOR FOR
SECOND READING AND AND ULTIMATE
ULTIMATE DECISION UNDERSTANDING
THAT BETWEEN NOW AND SECOND
READING IF INDEED THE
POSTPONEMENT WERE NOT TO
SUCCEED, THERE WOULD BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR FOLKS TO TO
HAVE AMENDMENTS WHICH THEN
MIGHT BE BROUGHT TO THE TABLE
AND AND INDEED ACCEPTED WHICH
WOULD WOULD NULLIFY THAT THAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR A SECOND
READING AND RENDER A SECOND
PUBLIC HEARING MOOT.
SO IT'S A LITTLE SLOPPY BUT BUT
YOU KNOW, GOVERNMENT IS AN
ITERATIVE PROCESS AND SO YOU
FOR THOSE REASONS ARE LOOKING
FORWARD TO THE CONVERSATION
REALLY WHENEVER IT OCCURS.
I'M GOING TO I THINK VOTE
AGAINST THE POSTPONEMENT
OF MCCRINDLE
.
SO I WANTED TO PROVIDE JUST A
BIT OF COUNTERPOINT BECAUSE
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW, I HAD THOUGHT ABOUT AS
WELL IN TERMS
OF DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACT AND
TWO OF THE THINGS THAT DR STONE
SAID TO ME REALLY STOOD OUT IN
HAVE BEEN WEIGHING ON MY MIND
AND ONE WAS THAT THIS THE HEARD
ORDINANCE REALLY WILL ENHANCE
CONSUMER PROTECTIONS BY
PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE
FULL COSTS OF OPERATING A HOME
PRIOR TO PURCHASE WHICH I THINK
IS REALLY IMPORTANT WHEN WE
CONSIDER HOW DOES THAT AFFECT,
YOU KNOW, FOLKS WHO MAY NOT
HAVE A LOT OF DISPOSABLE INCOME
AND WHO YOU KNOW, FOR WHOM
THESE COST CONSIDERATIONS ARE
REALLY VITALLY IMPORTANT.
AND SO THAT WAS JUST SORT OF A
COUNTERPOINT TO ME THAT HAS
BEEN STUCK IN THE BACK OF MY
MIND ALL DAY.
AND I THINK THE SECOND ONE IS
THAT WHEN WE LOOK AT HOUSING AS
IT IS, WE WANT TO ENSURE THAT
FOLKS OF ALL INCOME LEVELS HAVE
A SAFE AND HEALTHY PLACE TO
LIVE IN HEARD TO ME THAT
PATHWAY SO THAT WE KNOW ENERGY
EFFICIENT HOMES ARE NOT ONLY
LESS COSTLY TO OPERATE BUT
SAFER FOR FOLKS TO LIVE IN.
AND I THINK THOSE ARE TWO
OF THE COUNTERPOINTS TO SOME
OF WHAT WE'VE HEARD AROUND THE
TABLE TONIGHT THAT ARE EQUALLY
WORTHY OF CONSIDERATION AS PART
OF THIS CONVERSATION.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR BRIAN.
THANK YOU.
UM, I GET THE SENSE FROM THIS
CONVERSATION THAT NO ONE IS
AGAINST HEARD THAT I HAVE NOT
HEARD ANYONE SPEAK OUT AGAINST
THIS AND THAT'S GREAT.
WE ALL UNDERSTAND THE REASONS
FOR THIS AND THAT AND IT'S
REALLY MORE ABOUT THE HOW DO WE
IMPLEMENT IT AND FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND TAKING A MINUTE TO
DIGEST AND AND TAKE IN A LITTLE
BIT OF EXTRA INPUT IS WHAT
WE'RE ASKING FOR HERE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT A LOT WITH THIS
COUNCIL WE ARE THE MOST DIVERSE
COUNCIL WE'VE EVER HAD AND THAT
MEANS WE HAVE VOICES THAT ARE
FAIRLY NEW TO THIS COUNCIL WHO
HAVEN'T BEEN WORKING ON THIS
FOR THREE YEARS OR YOU KNOW, AS
SOME OTHERS HAVE UM AND IN AH
JUST RECENTLY GETTING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO WEIGH IN.
AND SO I FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE
SUPPORTING THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
SOME OF OUR NEWER MEMBERS
OF THIS BODY TO WEIGH IN TO
PROPOSE AN ALTERNATE IDEA TO
HAVE THAT DISCUSSION WITH ELCI.
MAYBE IT WORKS, MAYBE IT
DOESN'T.
BUT TO ME JUST TAKING A B TO
ALLOW THAT AND TO GIVE THAT
RESPECT TO OUR TO OUR FELLOW
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO ARE
BRINGING A DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVE TO THIS TABLE IS
REALLY IMPORTANT TO ME.
SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT.
COUNCILOR WATSON.
SO I HAD THE CHANCE TO POSE
SOME QUESTIONS TO DR STULTS IN
MY REGULAR WARD TO OUTSIDE
CHECKING THE THIS PAST ABOUT
TWO WEEKS AGO AND ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS I ASKED WAS ABOUT THE
WAY THAT THEY USED HER DATA IN
PORTLAND AND THEY DID AN
ANALYSIS TO SEE AN ANALYSIS TO
SEE IF LOHAUS HEARD SCORES WERE
CONCENTRATING IN CERTAIN AREAS
OF OF POVERTY OR MINORITY
MAJORITY AREAS TO SEE IF IT WAS
AFFECTING ALSO TO SEE IF IT WAS
AFFECTING HOUSING PRICES.
SO ONE, THEY DIDN'T SEE IT
AFFECTING HOUSING PRICES YET
BUT TWO, THEY SAID WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO KEEP WATCHING THIS
ON THE THE QUESTION OF IS IT
ADVERSELY IMPACTING MINORITY
COMMUNITIES?
BUT THE OTHER POINT THAT WAS
MADE IS SOMETIMES WE'RE GOING
TO NEED THIS INFORMATION TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO HOW TO TARGET
OUR SUBSIDIES.
SO IF WE DON'T KNOW THAT PEOPLE
PEOPLE'S HOMES ARE RATED A ONE
IN EFFICIENCY, WE KNOW THAT
THEY NEED SUBSIDIES, THAT
THEY'RE ELIGIBLE FOR.
SO I'M WONDERING IF DR. STULTS
COULD COMMENT A LITTLE BIT MORE
ON HOW HOW WE PLAN TO USE THIS
DATA TO SEE IF THERE'S A
DISPARATE IMPACT ON EQUITY CUTS
,WHETHER WHAT'S IN FOR THE
QUESTION?
THERE'S A FEW DIFFERENT WAYS
THAT WE'RE THINKING ABOUT THIS
ONE IS HAVING THE DATA IS
REALLY IMPORTANT PERIOD.
SO WE COULD BE ABLE TO SLICE
AND DICE IT IN MULTIPLE
DIFFERENT WAYS AND UNDERSTAND
IF WE DO HAVE DISPROPORTIONATE
IMPACTS TO THE POSITIVE OR TO
THE NEGATIVE AND THEN PRESENT
THOSE FINDINGS BACK TO COUNCIL
AND THINK ABOUT THE ADJUSTMENTS
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE IN THAT
PROGRAM.
SECOND, AS WE'VE MENTIONED A
FEW TIMES, THIS IS NOT THE ONLY
THING THAT WE ARE DOING.
THIS IS ABOUT A PIECE OF THE
ECOSYSTEM AND IT'S AN IMPORTANT
PIECE BECAUSE IT'S DATA IT'S
INFORMATION THAT HELPS US I
LIKE THE WORD BE MORE SURGICAL.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH MONEY TO
HELP EVERY SINGLE HOUSEHOLD
MAKE IMPROVEMENTS BUT WE REALLY
DO WANT TO CENTER OUR OUR FRONT
LINE IN FENCELINE POPULATIONS
ARE LOW INCOME COMMUNITIES WHO
HAVE BEEN DISPROPORTIONATELY
BURDENED BY ENERGY COSTS THAT
ARE RISING OR OTHER SORT
OF FACTORS IN THEIR LIVES.
AND SO HAVING THIS INFORMATION
ALLOWS US TO DIRECT PEOPLE TO
THINGS LIKE THE HOME ENERGY
ADVISER THAT WE'RE ESTABLISHING
SO THEY CAN GET THAT SUPPORT OR
TO A REBATE PROGRAM THAT WE'RE
CREATING.
IT'S JUST ANOTHER TOOL IN THE
TOOLBOX OR HELP STAFF THINK
ABOUT THAT.
ONE OTHER QUESTION YOU'VE
TALKED ABOUT THE IDEA
OF SOMETHING OF BEING VOLUNTARY
AS BEING OR YOU KNOW, BEING
INCENTIVIZED IS ALSO BEING
VOLUNTARY.
WELL, AS WHEREAS THIS KIND
OF MAKING IT MANDATORY OR YOU
KNOW, MAKING IT MANDATORY IS
WHAT GETS US TO THE COMPLIANCE
WE WANT BECAUSE YOU TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT LIKE WHAT
LEVEL OF COMPLIANCE WE WOULD
EXPECT TO SEE OR WANT TO SEE.
YEAH, IT'S ALWAYS THE GOAL TO
HAVE FULL COMPLIANCE AND A
PROGRAM I DON'T THINK ANYONE
REALLY WANTS TO GO TO
ENFORCEMENT THAT'S NEVER LEVEL
OR THE OBJECTIVE ESPECIALLY IN
SOMETHING LIKE THIS WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO ACTUALLY MAKE HOMES
MORE EFFICIENT.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS THAT
WE'LL BE DOING IN THE
MARKETPLACE HERE INCLUDING
EDUCATION OUTREACH.
WE'RE NOT JUST I KNOW WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS BECAUSE THE
AUDIENCE ITSELF IS FOCUSED ON
WHOLESALE BUT WE ALSO ARE
HOPING TO OFFER THIS AND WHAT
WE WILL BE OFFERING THIS IN
SOME WAY, SHAPE OR FORM
ASSESSMENTS FOR EVERYONE IN THE
MARKETPLACE TO GET THEIR HOME
ENERGY SCORE ONCE THEY GET A
SCORE THEY'RE GOOD FOR EIGHT
YEARS OR UNTIL THEY MAKE MAJOR
CHANGES TO THEIR HOME AND THE
IDEA IS NOT JUST TO PUT ALL THE
PRESSURE AT TIMES THEY'LL HAVE
THE ENTIRE MARKETPLACE GET THIS
INFORMATION SO THEN WE CAN HAVE
MORE INFORMED DECISION MAKING
MORE BROADLY.
WE ALSO KNOW FROM RESEARCH THAT
VOLUNTARY DOESN'T WORK.
WE DON'T ACTUALLY SEE ANY
SHIFTS IN THE MARKETPLACE.
AND I WOULD JUST ADD ONE LAST
THING WHICH IS THIS IS NOT A
PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENT.
SO I'VE HEARD A FEW TIMES
PEOPLE SAYING BUT BUT PEOPLE
WILL HAVE TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS
.
THEY WON'T THAT'S NOT THE
REQUIREMENT OF THE ORDINANCE.
IT'S DISCLOSURE.
IT'S TRULY CONSUMER PROTECTION
FOR PEOPLE THAT ARE BUYING SIX
HUNDRED TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLAR
AVERAGE HOUSES.
THAT'S TERRIFYING.
SO HOW DO WE HELP ENSURE THAT
PEOPLE ARE SUPPORTED IN THAT
SPACE?
THAT'S AT LEAST ADVANTAGE THAT
WE THINK ABOUT CONSUMER
PROTECTION IN THE POSTPONEMENT
.
I FEEL TORN ABOUT THE
POSTPONEMENT.
I CAME TONIGHT REALLY EXCITED
TO SUPPORT THIS.
I DO APPRECIATE THE THINGS THAT
ARE BEING RAISED AND I GUESS
SPEAKING AS ONE OF THE NEWER
COUNCIL MEMBERS, YOU KNOW,
HAVING TO WRAP YOUR MIND AROUND
THIS IN A FEW WEEKS IS A LOT.
BUT I THINK AS I HAVE SHOWN A
LOT OF RESPONSIVENESS EVEN
CHANGING SEVERAL POINTS BETWEEN
THE FIRST READING AND THE
SECOND FIRST READING THAT HAVE
BEEN RESPONSIVE.
I TRUST THAT THEY'LL BE
RESPONSIVE IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF WEEKS BEFORE THIS COMES
BACK.
I'M ALSO HEARING ALL OF THE
WORK IN THE RESEARCH THAT WENT
INTO THIS AND I JUST HAVE A LOT
OF CONFIDENCE IN ALL OF THAT
WORK THAT HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE
I GOT TO THIS POINT SO I'M
FEELING DISINCLINED TO SUPPORT
THE POSTPONEMENT TONIGHT
BECAUSE I WANT TO SEE THIS MOVE
FORWARD BECAUSE I'M FEELING
CONFIDENT WITH THE ANSWERS AND
THE APPROACH AND THE WORK AND
THOUGHTFULNESS THAT WENT INTO
THIS AS WELL AS OUR ABILITY TO
ADJUST FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR WATSON, WE'VE GOT A
YOU KNOW MY THOUGHTS ON THE
POST COMING HERE.
WE'VE GOT A SUBSTITUTE WE'VE
GOT A SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE HERE
WE CAN READ NOTICE THAT I'M OK
WITH PROCEEDING WITHOUT
POSTPONING IT BECAUSE WE'RE
GOING TO BE ADVERTISING THIS TO
THE COMMUNITY AND THERE WILL BE
A SECOND READING AND IF AS IT
ARISES THAT WE HAVE TO MAKE
MORE EDITS, I'M OK WITH THAT.
YOU KNOW, RESTARTING THE
PROCESS AGAIN.
BUT I THINK WE CAN WE HAVE A
SUBSTITUTE AND WE CAN VOTE ON
THAT OR NOT.
>> I'M DISINCLINED TO SUPPORT
THE POSTPONEMENT FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE.
WE HAVEN'T HAD MANY ROLL CALL
VOTES.
THE ROLL CALL VOTE IS CALLED BY
THE CLERK STARTING WITH THE
MEMBERS ON POINT THAT I BELIEVE
I'M ON POINT TODAY.
WE'LL START WITH MAYOR TAYLOR
ROLL-CALL PLEASE.
STARTING WITH ME MAYOR TAYLOR
ON THE POSTPONEMENT NO ER YES
COUNCILOR AKMAN NO COUNCILOR
BRIGGS NOW COUNCILOR CORNELL NO
CUSTOMER DISH NO BECAUSE WE'RE
HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG ABSENT COUNCILOR
WATSON NO.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER MURKOWSKI ONE YES
MOTION FAILS FURTHER DISCUSSION
THE MAIN MOTIONS AMENDED
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S I DID
WANT TO SHARE THAT I I KNOW
THAT THERE ARE STILL A LOT
OF QUESTIONS JUST KIND OF GONE
THROUGH THIS IN THE AMENDMENT
PROCESS I HAVE AS OTHERS HAVE
SAID, STRONG CONFIDENCE IN THE
ABILITY FOR FOR DR STULTS TO BE
ABLE TO ANSWER A LOT
OF QUESTIONS.
I KNOW THAT I HAVE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ASK A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS AND EVERY TIME I, YOU
KNOW, GET HIT WITH WITH WITH AN
ISSUE THAT I THINK THAT MAYBE
THEY HAVEN'T THOUGHT OF , I'M
ALWAYS IMPRESSED WITH HOW MUCH
WORK AND RESEARCH THEY ALREADY
HAVE IN THAT AREA.
SO I'M I SUSPECT FOR THOSE WHO
JUST NEED A LITTLE MORE TIME TO
WRESTLE AROUND THIS WITH THIS
AREA, THAT'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF OPPORTUNITY IN THE NEXT
BEFORE THIS COMES A SECOND
READING TO GET THOSE QUESTIONS
ANSWERED AND I THINK THAT THERE
ARE LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES STILL
IF WE ARE LOOKING AT LEARING
THINGS ON IN ADDITION TO HEARD
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY A LOT IN OUR
CLIMATE ACTION PLAN BUT THERE
ARE A LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HIT THIS
FROM A LOT OF DIFFERENT ANGLES
TO MAKE IT WORK AND IF IF YOU
KNOW MORE INCREDIBLE IDEAS GET
GENERATED IN THIS TIME PERIOD
I'M SUPER EXCITED TO SUPPORT
THEM AS WELL OR THE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
YEAH, I WOULD ECHO THAT.
I AS I SAID I AM VERY EXCITED
TO HEAR THE RESULTS OF THE WORK
THAT YOU'VE BEEN DOING THAT
COUNCILOR HARRISON BECAUSE WE
DON'T DO THAT HAS BEEN DOING
SORRY I DID HAVE A QUESTION
PICKING UP ON SOME OF THE
COMMENTS THAT WERE MADE EARLIER
ABOUT DISPERSED
DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACTS.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION FOR DR.
SALSA'S SHE'S STILL ON UM I
IT'S ABOUT A FINDING IN THE
STUDY BY THE LAWRENCE BERKELEY
NATIONAL LABORATORY AND SO THIS
IS THE 2022 STUDY BASED ON OVER
26000 HOMES SALES.
UM, AMONG THEIR FINDINGS AS WE
HAVE MENTIONED A FEW TIMES WAS
THAT ONLY IN CITIES WHERE THE
ASSESSMENT WAS REQUIRED TO BE
DISCLOSED AT THE TIME
OF LISTING WAS THERE AN IMPACT
ON THE MARKET AND THEY FOUND
TWO IMPACTS ON THE MARKET.
ONE WAS THAT A ONE POINT
INCREASE IN THE HOME ENERGY
SCORE IN THESE LOCATIONS WAS
ASSOCIATED WITH A POINT FIVE
PERCENT INCREASE IN THE SALES
PRICE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S GOOD FOR THE
SELLER.
BUT THEY ALSO FOUND THAT AN
INCREASE IN ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
OF ESTIMATED ANNUAL ENERGY
BILLS WAS ASSOCIATED WITH A
POINT FOUR PERCENT DECREASE
WHICH IS NOT GOOD FOR THE
SELLER AND AGAIN, SO I WONDERED
IF IF IT IS STATHIS OF OPINION
THAT WE THAT THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT SHOULD WORRY US THAT WHEN
THERE IS A FINDING OF INCREASED
ENERGY BILLS THERE'S A DECREASE
IN PRICE TO THE CELLAR AND I
THINK YOU'VE ALREADY STAFF HAS
ALREADY SAID THIS BUT I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE TRACK AND
FIGURE OUT IF THERE'S ANYTHING
THAT WE YOU KNOW, HOW WE AGAIN
HOW WE CAN TARGET OUR
INVESTMENTS TO HELP FOLKS WHO
AREN'T ABLE TO LOWER THEIR
ENERGY BILLS BECAUSE I
RECOGNIZE THAT A HOME IS ONE
OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
PURCHASES BUT IT'S ALSO ONE
OFTEN A FAMILY'S MOST
SIGNIFICANT COST.
NO.
SO YEAH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH HEPZIBAH
JUST FOR THE QUESTION I'M GOING
TO CALL MR SMITH AND ON THIS
ONE JUST WANT TO SHARE THIS IS
IN FACT WHY WE'VE CLEANED UP
THE HOME ENERGY SKORTON NOT
ENERGY BILLS BECAUSE PEOPLE USE
ENERGY VERY DIFFERENTLY
DEPENDING ON IF THERE ARE OLDER
ADULTS THEY'VE GOT KIDS IN THE
HOUSEHOLD AND SO USING ENERGY
BY ITSELF IS NOT REALLY AN
INDICATION OF THE EFFICIENCY
OF THAT HOME.
MR SMITH, WOULD YOU LIKE TO.
YEAH, THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTIONS SO THAT THAT'S IN
PART WHY WE ARE PURSUING A HOME
ENERGY SCORE BECAUSE YOU CAN
OPEN A LOT OF HOME BUYERS RIGHT
NOW ALREADY HAVE ACCESS TO
HISTORICAL ENERGY USE DATA FROM
FROM THE UTILITY AND THAT
DOESN'T TELL THE FULL PICTURE
THAT IN PART DOES SUGGEST THAT
THERE CAN BE AN INCREASE IN THE
COST OF THE THE HOME BUT THE
HOME ENERGY SCORE IS PROVIDES A
MUCH CLEARER PICTURE OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE HOME.
THE ENERGY USE CAN VARY FROM
THE RESIDENT RESIDENT WHOEVER'S
LIVING IN THAT IN THE SAME
HOME.
BUT THE ENERGY PERFORMANCE
OF THAT HOME REMAINS THE SAME
ACROSS THE BOARD.
SO THAT'S THAT'S IN PART WHY WE
ARE ADVOCATING FOR THE INTEREST
FOR THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED OF COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
I DO WANT TO THANK THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT CAME OUT
TONIGHT CAME OUT TWICE AND
PRESUMABLY WILL COME OUT AGAIN
AND THERE WAS ALSO, YOU KNOW,
THE EMAILS WE'VE GOTTEN BUT AND
I WANT TO SAY THAT WITH THAT
INFORMATION WE'VE MADE
CHANGES
AND I THINK THERE ARE EVEN SOME
POINTS BROUGHT UP TONIGHT
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, DEFINITIONS
OF COMMERCIAL HOUSING AND
CERTAIN EDGE CASES IN TERMS
OF HOW CONDOS ARE STACKED AND I
MEAN THESE ARE THINGS THAT WE
WANT TO FACTOR IN AND I THINK
THAT WE COULD AND I THINK WE
CAN HEAR MORE ABOUT THE
SPECIFICS OF THE SORT OF EQUITY
TRACKING HERE.
I THINK THIS IS ALL WITHIN THIS
IS ALL POSSIBLE, YOU KNOW, WITH
THE NORMAL PROCESS HERE.
SO I JUST WANT TO ONCE AGAIN
THANK PEOPLE FOR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS FOR COMING AND THE
REALTORS ASSOCIATION FOR COMING
IN AND I I'M CONFIDENT THAT
WE'LL GET TO A PLACE WHERE THIS
IS A WORKABLE PROCESS.
COUNCILOR GARCIA, I KNOW THIS
CONVERSATION IS BECOMING
EXTREMELY ON AND YOU KNOW, IT'S
A COMPLEX ISSUE AND I THINK NOW
THAT THIS POSTPONEMENT HAS
FAILED, I PERSONALLY WANT TO
WORK WITH OSSI AND DR STULTZ TO
UNDERSTAND A FEW THINGS AND ONE
IS THE COMMITMENT AND THE NEED
FOR US TO DO THE DATA AND THE
TRACKING AND THE MONITORING
AFTER ITS IMPLEMENTATION TO
REALLY SEE IF DISPARITIES ARE
HAPPENING, WHERE ARE THEY
HAPPENING AND HOW DO WE
POTENTIALLY ADDRESS THEM.
AND THE SECOND IS, YOU KNOW,
FROM STUDIES THAT I WAS FORWARD
AND I WAS SENT AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT I CAN ALSO TALK
TO OUTSIDE ABOUT THERE WERE
SOME FACTORS THAT WERE POINTED
OUT IN REGARDS TO DISPARITIES
THAT I THINK WERE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT TO MENTION, WHICH IS
THAT MANY IN THIS STUDIES WERE
INDIVIDUAL WERE INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAD THE MONEY AND THE TIME TO
IMPROVE THEIR HOUSING ENERGY
EFFICIENCY SCORES AND THE
ARTICLE ALSO DISCUSSED THAT
MANY BLACK NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE
FEWER HOUSES JUST BECAUSE
OF HISTORICAL POLICIES LIKE
REDLINING AND HOUSING HOUSING
COVENANTS AND THOSE HOMES ARE
ALSO OLDER IN THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH MAKES IT
HARDER TO DO ENERGY RETROFITS.
I JUST THINK THOSE
CONVERSATIONS ARE IMPORTANT FOR
US TO HAVE AS A COMMUNITY AND
IT'S SOMETHING I'M COMMITTED TO
CONTINUE HAVING WITH OSFI EVEN
AFTER ITS IMPLEMENTATION A
DISCUSSION OF I JUST LIKE TO
VERY BRIEFLY THANK DR. STULTS
AND AND ALL OF HER TEAM AT
OSAKI AS WELL AS COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND STAKEHOLDERS FOR
FOR CONVERSING AND ITERATING ON
THIS ON THIS AUDIENCE WHICH I
THINK HAS HAS CONSISTENTLY BEEN
BEEN IMPROVING AND I AM
GRATEFUL FOR FOR FOR WHERE WE
ARE TODAY.
I BELIEVE THAT THE THE
INCLUSION OF A SCORE OF THIS
NATURE WILL ENABLE HOMEOWNERS
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND WHAT THEIR
WHAT THEY'RE SELLING HOMEBUYERS
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY'RE BUYING AND WILL ENABLE
US AS A MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION
TO UNDERSTAND THE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY LANDSCAPE BETTER
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
THIS WILL NOT BE A MERELY
ACADEMIC EXERCISE BUT AS DR
STULTS HAS AS INDICATED WILL BE
CENTRAL TO OUR OUTREACH
PROGRAM.
WE HAVE, YOU KNOW, I'M NOT
QUITE SURE WHAT A BETTER TERM
THAN FOOTSOLDIER IS BUT WE WILL
HAVE BOOTS ON THE GROUND
STUDENTS YOU KNOW, AMERICORPS
MEMBERS ON THE GROUND WHO ARE
GOING TO EAGER TO GO OUT INTO
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE WE LEARN
THAT WE'VE LEARNED THROUGH
PROGRAMS SUCH AS THIS THAT THAT
ENERGY EFFICIENCY REQUIRES WORK
AND WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO HELP
HELP PROVIDE THAT WORK THROUGH
THROUGH EITHER GRANTS THAT WE
ARE PROVIDING GRANTS THAT THE
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
PROVIDING OR THE STATE AND SO
FORTH.
THE THE EXISTENCE OF THIS DATA
WILL ENABLE US TO TO TAKE
ACTION ON BEHALF OF OF
COMMUNITIES AND INDIVIDUALS IN
NEED AND I AM I'M EXCITED FOR
IT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
POSED IT'S PROVED DID ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
AMENDED 303 NORTH FIFTH AND
THREE ONE TWO THREE FOURTEEN
DETROIT REDEVELOPMENT
BROWNFIELD PLAN MOVE BY
COUNCILOR BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB
ONE ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED C ONE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND THE NORDEN'S TO BAN THE
ZONING MAP BEING PART
OF SECTION FIVE TEND TO HAVE
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TWO SIX SEVEN ZERO
AND TWO SIX NINE ZERO AND
OBVIOUSLY ROAD REZONING FROM R
ONE THING SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT TO OFFICE
DISTRICT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
JUST SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT'S
APPROVED C TO ADD ARDEN'S TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE PALMY
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION SEVEN
SIX ZERO TWO SECTION SEVEN SIX
ZERO FOUR TO SEVEN SIX ZERO SIX
SECTION SEVEN SIX ZERO EIGHT IN
SECTION SEVEN SIX ONE THREE A
CHAPTER NINETY SIX MEDICAL
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND
MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
OF TITLE SEVEN OF THE CODE OF
THE STEPHEN ARBOR MOVI COUNCIL
MEMBER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OBVIOUSLY TO ON FABER
POST IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPOINT VANESSA
JACKSON THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AS A NON RESIDENT
ELECTOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AS HE HAD BEEN SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVOR POSED IS APPROVED
.
SORRY.
THANK YOU.
IT IS UNANIMOUS WITH 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
CONTRACT WITH ANN ARBOR SPARKE
FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SERVICES EIGHT EIGHTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON SECOND ACCOUNT NO DIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
FAVOR POSED ITS APPROVED DC
THREE RESOLUTION URGING THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE TO END THE
SALE OF FLAVORED TOBACCO
PRODUCTS INCLUDING MENTHOL
PRODUCTS AND REPEAL PREVENTION
OF TOBACCO LICENSER SALES
POLICIES IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
MOVE BY COUNCILOR HARRISON
SUCCUBI COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
HARRISON THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WAS HAPPY TO CO-SPONSOR AND
FIRMLY SUPPORT THE RESOLUTION
URGING THE MICHIGAN STATE
LEGISLATURE TO BAN FLAVORED
TOBACCO PRODUCTS INCLUDING
MENTHOL HISTORICALLY FLAVORED
TOBACCO ESPECIALLY MENTHOL HAS
BEEN AGGRESSIVELY MARKETED
TOWARDS BLACK COMMUNITIES
LEADING TO DISPROPORTIONATE
HEALTH IMPACTS ON BLACK AND
BROWN ADULTS AND YOUTH.
THESE PRODUCTS ARE DELIBERATELY
TAILORED TO APPEAL TO OUR
YOUNGER RESIDENTS, OFTEN ACTING
AS A DANGEROUS PRIMALLY PRELUDE
TO A LIFETIME OF NICOTINE
DEPENDANCE.
LOWER INCOME COMMUNITIES ARE
ALSO PARTICULARLY VULNERABLE,
BEARING THE BRUNT OF ASSOCIATED
HEALTH COSTS AND THE CYCLE
OF ADDICTION BY REPEALING A
LOCAL PREEMPTION OF TOBACCO
LICENSURE AND SALES POLICIES,
WE EMPOWER LOCAL MUNICIPALITIES
TO IMPLEMENT MEASURES BEST
SUITED FOR THEIR COMMUNITIES.
IT IS CRUCIAL FOR OUR STATE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THESE DISPARITIES
AND TAKE DECISIVE ACTIONS,
BROYER THANK YOU.
NO, I'M HAPPY TO CO-SPONSOR
THIS.
IT IT SEEMS LIKE WE'RE PLAYING
WHACK A MOLE WITH THE TOBACCO
INDUSTRY AND YOU KNOW, JUST
WHEN WE GET ONE SET OF ISSUES
PARTICULARLY RELATED TO
MARKETING TO MINORS UM
REGULATED ANOTHER CROPS UP AND
THIS THE FLAVOR TOBACCO I THINK
IS THE WORST YET BECAUSE I MEAN
ADOLESCENTS ARE KNOWN TO PREFER
THINGS THAT ARE SWEET.
THIS IS THIS THIS PRODUCT IS
100 PERCENT A THOUSAND PERCENT
MARKETED TOWARDS GETTING THEM
HOOKED ON NICOTINE.
UM AND SO YOU KNOW, IF WE
BELIEVE IN RESTRICTING
MARKETING OF TOBACCO TO MINORS,
I THINK WE ALSO ALSO SHOULD
SUPPORT THE RESTRICTION
OF THESE PRODUCTS THAT ARE
SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED TO HOOK
MINORS ON ON TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
SO HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS AND I
HOPE THE LEGISLATURE WILL
FOLLOW THROUGH FURTHER
DISCUSSION SO THIS UM THIS
RESOLUTION WAS ALSO PASSED BY
OUR PARTNERS AT THE COUNTY
LEVEL AND IT'S ENDORSED BY THE
AND I LOVE LOCK THE COUNTY
HEALTH SECRETARY BUT IT ALSO
WOULD PUT BUT THE STATE SHOULD
THE LEGISLATURE TAKE THIS
ACTION, IT WOULD PUT US IN LINE
WITH TEN OTHER STATES THAT HAVE
BANNED THESE PRODUCTS AND I
THINK THAT'S THE POINT FROM THE
FDA ABOUT THE DEATHS THAT WOULD
BE AVERTED SHOULD THESE MENTHOL
BANS GONE TO PLACE.
THEY SAID THEY PROJECTED SIX
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE
THOUSAND DEATHS WOULD BE
AVERTED INCLUDING TWO HUNDRED
AND THIRTY SEVEN THOUSAND
AFRICAN-AMERICAN DEATHS.
SO TO PUT IT IN PRETTY STARK
TERMS, THAT'S WHAT WE HOPE TO
ACCOMPLISH.
SHOULD MICHIGAN PUT THIS THIS
BAN INTO EFFECT?
I'M SORRY DENHA I'M SORRY.
MY APOLOGIES FOR IT.
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS, JUST LIKE TO
THANK ALL THE CO-SPONSORS FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD AND ASKED
TO BE LISTED AS ONE FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THANK
THE COUNTY AND HEALTH OFFICER
LOVELOCK FOR BRINGING THIS THIS
RESOLUTION TO OUR COLLECTIVE
ATTENTION.
OBVIOUSLY TOBACCO IS AN
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT PUBLIC
HEALTH ISSUE BUT IT IS ALSO IN
THIS CONTEXT
WITH PARTICULARITY
AND OF EQUITY ISSUE.
TOBACCO COMPANIES PRIMARILY
TARGET THEIR ADVERTISING TO
PEOPLE OF COLOR LGBT
COMMUNITIES AND YOUNG PEOPLE
FLAVORED TOBACCO LEADS TO MORE
TOBACCO USE WORTH AND WORSE
HEALTH OUTCOMES FOR THESE
GROUPS AND IS IS A CONSCIOUS
AND INTENTIONAL YOU HEALTH
TRAGEDY IN THE MAKING.
I BLOODED TO BE A PART OF A
COUNCIL THAT'S ASKING A
LEGISLATURE TO ITSELF ENACT
THESE RESTRICTIONS AND IN
IMPORTANTLY IN THE EVENT
OF THAT ACTION RATHER IN THE
ABSENCE OF THAT ACTION TO GIVE
MUSICALITY THROUGHOUT THE
THROUGHOUT THE STATE THE
ABILITY TO DO SO IT'S A CRUCIAL
THING TO HELP PRESERVE THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF OUR
RESIDENTS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED DC FOR
RESOLUTION FOR COMMUNITY EVENTS
FUND DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE
FISCAL YEAR 2024 BUDGET MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISTRICT COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I AM EXCITED TO TALK ABOUT
THIS.
I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING WE DO
ANNUALLY WITH RELATIVELY LITTLE
FANFARE BUT AS A DIRECT RESULT
OF OUR BUDGET DECISIONS EARLIER
THIS YEAR THE AMOUNT OF FUNDING
THAT WE HAD AVAILABLE TO
DISPERSE THIS FISCAL YEAR IS
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
GREATER ALLOWING US TO INVEST
MORE IN THE COMMUNITY EVENTS
AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
THAT RUN THEM HAVING A MORE
MEANINGFUL IMPACT ON THE
ABILITY OF THESE BELOVED
COMMUNITY EVENTS TO COVER COSTS
AND CONTINUE INTO THE FUTURE.
I JUST WANTED TO REITERATE WITH
THIS YEAR'S RESOLUTION THE
PROCESS MAINTAINS OUR HISTORIC
COMMITMENT AND ACTUALLY WITH A
SLIGHT INCREASE TO THE NUMBER
OF SUMMER FESTIVAL WHILE
ALLOWING US TO CONSIDERABLY
INCREASE OUR INVESTMENT IN THE
ART FAIRS WHICH THE GUILD
OF ARTISTS AND ARTISANS IS
ESTIMATED HELPS TO INFUSE
800000 DOLLARS INTO OUR
REGIONAL ECONOMY ANNUALLY
INCREASES OUR SUPPORT FOR OTHER
EVENTS AND ORGANIZATION ACROSS
THE BOARD AND THROUGH SOME
ADDITIONAL OUTREACH THIS YEAR
ENABLED US TO PARTNER WITH ANN
ARBOR PRIDE NAACP AS JUNETEENTH
CELEBRATION IN THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN DOWNTOWN
FESTIVAL.
I WILL NOTE THAT ONE NOTABLE
LOSS FROM THIS YEAR'S LIST IS
OUR PAST SUPPORT FOR FULL MOON
AND FESTIVALS.
AFTER THE RECENT ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT ASSEMBLY WHICH WAS
FORMALLY WONDERFUL PRODUCTIONS
IS DISSOLVING AND I THINK I CAN
SPEAK FOR OUR RELATIVELY SMALL
COMMITTEE BUT OUR COMMITTEE IN
EXPRESSING OUR HOPE THAT WE
WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SUPPORT THIS AMAZING AND
FOOLISH TRADITION AGAIN IN THE
FUTURE.
AND FINALLY I JUST WANTED TO
GIVE THANKS TO OUR DIRECTOR
OF OPERATIONS SARAH HIGGINS WHO
DOES ALL THE COORDINATION
OF THE APPLICATIONS CONTINUES
OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH ALL
OF THE FUNDED ORGANIZATION AND
CONTINUES OUR OUTREACH EFFORTS
TO EXPAND OUR SCOPE ANNUALLY.
SO THANKS TO SARAH FOR ALL
OF THE HARD WORK SHE PUTS INTO
THIS DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED DC FIVE
RESOLUTION TO IMPROVE KLEMENS
DATA MANAGEMENT AND USAGE
POLICY IN ORDER TO ENSURE LAW
ENFORCEMENT TRANSPARENCY MOVED
BY COUNCILOR HARRISON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER.
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
FIVE COUNCIL MAHASEN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
WASN'T LONG AGO WHEN WE PASSED
THE ORDINANCE AGAINST LOW LEVEL
SECONDARY STOPS DRIVEN BY OUR
COLLECTIVE REALIZATION THAT
THEY DISPROPORTIONATELY
AFFECTED OUR BLACK AND BROWN
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TOGETHER WE
MADE A COMMITMENT TO OUR
RESIDENTS TO ENSURE EQUITABLE
TREATMENT FOR ALL BUT OUR WORK
TOWARDS A MORE JUST IN ARBOR IS
NOT DONE.
WHILE WE HAVE BEEN PROACTIVE IN
ADDRESSING BIASES THROUGH OUR
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS,
THERE EXISTS A LIMITATION WITH
THE COURT LAW ENFORCEMENT
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS KLIMOV
CLIMOS.
I'M TONGUE TIED TONIGHT I THIS
SYSTEM CURRENTLY ONLY ALLOWS
OUR OFFICERS TO SELECT ONE
REASON FOR CONTACT AND ONLY ONE
OUTCOME FROM A LIST DURING THE
STOP LEADING TO POTENTIAL
DISCREPANCIES IN OUR DATA WHICH
IN TURN CAN UNDERCUT THE VERY
INTENT OF OUR PAST INITIATIVES
.
THE RESOLUTION I PRESENT TODAY
SEEKS TO REFINE THE CLIMATE
SYSTEM BY ALLOWING OUR OFFICERS
TO DETAIL THE MULTIFACETED
NATURE OF EACH STOP.
WE ENSURE THAT OUR DATA IS AS
COMPREHENSIVE AND REFLECTIVE
OF REALITY AS POSSIBLE.
BUT I EMPHASIZE THIS ISN'T JUST
A SYSTEM UPGRADE.
IT'S A REAFFIRM OF OUR
COMMITMENT.
WE BEGAN WITH THE INTRODUCTION
OF THE ORDINANCE AGAINST LOW
LEVEL SECONDARY STOPS AND ONE
THAT WE SHOULD CONTINUE TO
CHAMPION TODAY WITH THIS
RESOLUTION OUR JOURNEY TOWARDS
A JUST TRANSPARENT AND
EQUITABLE ANN ARBOR IS ONGOING
AND EVERY STOP, EVERY
RESOLUTION, EVERY ORDINANCE
BRINGS US CLOSER TO THAT
VISION.
I URGE MY COLLEAGUES TO SUPPORT
THIS RESOLUTION FURTHERING OUR
SHARED GOAL OF A CITY THAT
TRULY VALUES AND RESPECTS ALL
OF ITS INHABITANTS TOGETHER.
LET'S MAKE AN ARBORISTS SHINING
EXAMPLE OF WHAT A UNITED
COMMUNITY CAN ACHIEVE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
BUDISH I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
TO THIS RESOLUTION AND RACKMAN
WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD DATA.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
I JUST YOU KNOW I CAN'T SAY
ENOUGH ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT DATA
IS TO UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S
GOING ON AND I THINK WE SAW
THAT BY THE RECENT REPORT ON
POLICING WE CAN'T REALLY
UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING ON
UNLESS WE'RE COLLECTING THE
DATA APPROPRIATELY AND I THINK
WE'VE RECOGNIZED SOME GAPS
ESPECIALLY AS THE DASHBOARD HAS
BECOME MORE AVAILABLE.
SO JUST THANKS FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO SEEING THE RESULTS OF THIS
WE DENHA.
>> THANK AMANDA TAYLOR.
I THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
I KNOW THAT WE'VE HAD A COUPLE
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THIS AND
I AGREE EIA DATA AND I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR PLEASE COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON FOR IDENTIFYING
THIS THIS GAP IN OUR IN OUR IN
THE END WHAT WE ARE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND FROM THE DATA THAT
BECAUSE OF THE CLIMATE SYSTEM,
YOU KNOW, I GUESS I'M EXCITED
TO SEE WHAT WE CAN WHAT WE CAN
DO WITH THIS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.
AND I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND I DO
WANT TO MENTION, YOU KNOW, AS
YOU SAID IT IS THERE'S A LOT
OF STEPS THAT I THINK WE'RE
GOING TO BE TAKING LOOKING AT
DESPATCHING LOOKING AT OUR
DASHBOARDS AND IT'S GOOD TO SEE
I THINK IT'S GOOD TO SEE THIS
THIS STEP OCCURRING TONIGHT OR
THE DISCUSSION PAPER BRICS I'M
SORRY CUSTOMER BRICS YES.
THAT'S ANOTHER DATA NERD.
THANK YOU.
I TOO WOULD LOVE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR AS I JUST WANTED
TO SAY HOW IMPORTANT IT IS THAT
WE CONTINUE TO YOU KNOW THIS IS
ONE OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS OUT
OF THE SMART ANALYSIS OF PD
TRAFFIC STOP DATA AND WE NEED
TO CONTINUE TO BE, YOU KNOW,
RETURNING TO THIS REPORT AND
LOOKING FOR OPPORTUNITIES AS
CONTRACTS COME UP, AS DECISIONS
ARE MADE.
I KNOW THAT THIS CONTRACT IS
CHALLENGING.
WE'RE NOT EXACTLY SURE THE I.T.
CAPABILITIES ARE BUT IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE ASKING
AND ASKING FOR WORK AT THE
RIGHT TIME.
SO IT'S A GOOD TIME FOR US TO
BE DOING THIS AND APPRECIATE
THE RESOLUTION BEING PUT
FORWARD SO THANKS FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
I'M ALREADY ADDED TO THIS BUT I
I JUST I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRIS AND I ALSO WANT
TO SAY THAT, YOU KNOW, THIS
DATA I MEAN IT'S SO IMPORTANT
BUT IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
PAINTING A COMPREHENSIVE
PICTURE FOR ALL PARTIES
INVOLVED AND A STOP AND I THINK
THAT'S IMPORTANT TO SAY SO
THANK YOU AND I'M HAPPY TO BE
SUPPORTING US TONIGHT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
O.Z IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
THERE IS INDEED A REQUEST FOR A
CLOSED SESSION UNDER M.S. EL
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SECTION EIGHT DAYS TO CONSIDER
THE PURCHASE OF REAL PROPERTY.
THANK YOU FOR MOTION PLEASE TO
GO INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON
SUCCUBI COUNCIL MEMBER
CARSKADON DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL
VOTE PLEASE.
>> STARTING WITH ME MAYOR
TAYLOR YES COUNCILOR IA
CUSTOMER YES.
CUSTOMER BREAKS CUSTOMER KORNEL
YES.
REDISH YES BECAUSE WE'RE
HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG ABSENT COUNCILOR
WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
YES MOTION CARRIES WE ARE IN
CLOSED SESSION.
LET US MEET UPSTAIRS AT NINE
FIFTY YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF THE CLARK
SUPPORT IN FAVOR OF THE KIRKS
REPORT IS PROVED WE HAVE A
PLEASURE OF COMMUNICATIONS FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY TODAY.
ALAS NO THANK YOU.
TIS PITY IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT, OVERFLOW MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE BY COUNCILOR JUST
SECONDLY, COUNCILOR WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.